ACADEMIC ENTRY REQUIREMENTS     General entry advice     All of the following requirements must be met by applicants:   Qualification and employment status   A dental qualification acceptable to the College (BDS or BSc (or equivalent) in Dental Therapy), or full registration with the UK GDC or international country&rsquo;s equivalent.   Current employment as a dentist or dental therapist in a dental practice, dental school, hospital, or community dental services environment, UK or abroad.   Access to facilities and equipment   Adequate clinical facilities and an appropriate selection of patients;   Approved video/camera equipment, as part of the monitoring process (advice on this will be given arly in the programme/prior to commencement of the programme).   Minimum computer specification   Windows  Intel or AMD processor (1GHz or faster)   At least 512 MB of RAM (at least 2GB RAM for Vista or Windows 7)   Internet Explorer 7/8/9 (Windows 7 only), Firefox 3.x, 4 or Chrome 9,10   Sun Java 5 or higher   Mac OS X 10.5, 10.6 or 10.7  Intel processor   At least 512 MB of RAM   Safari 4/5, Firefox 3.x, 4 or Chrome 9,10   Apple Java 5 or higher   Current versions of the following free programs:  Adobe Reader   Real Player   QuickTime   Adobe Flash Player   An office suite capable of reading and creating Word documents    Other requirements   USB headset with a microphone (or separate headphones and microphone)   Webcam   Internet connection - Broadband is preferable. Ideally with minimum speeds of 2Mbps down and 3Mbps up.   A wired internet connection is preferable, so if you have wireless internet access, you may need to be able to connect your computer by cable to maintain a high-quality connection during tutorials.   Javascript must be enabled   Cookies must be enabled   Popup windows must be enabled.     Access to a good quality photographic equipment Effective dental photography techniques will be taught on the face-to-face course. These techniques will be used throughout the programme for the clinical cases component.       Essential recommendation:  Digital HD Camera 18 megapixels   Macro lens 100mm   Macro ring flash MF18    Disclosure   You will be required to declare any criminal convictions upon application.