ACADEMIC ENTRY REQUIREMENTS     General entry advice     The following criteria apply to all applicants:   Applicants should have, or be predicted to achieve, a good 2:1 honours degree (minimum) or the equivalent, including an introduction to empirical research, in a relevant subject, eg medicine, biology, mental health nursing, occupational therapy, psychology, neuroscience, criminology.  Non-graduates (eg nurses with a Diploma) will be asked to provide evidence of their capacity to study at postgraduate level and will be expected to have considerable relevant work experience since qualifying.  Degrees from outside the UK are assessed individually. US graduates should have an overall GPA of at least 3.3.  All teaching is conducted in English and it is therefore essential that students have a sufficient command of the language. Candidates who have not been educated to degree level in English will be required to provide proof that they possess an adequate level of English competence. The minimum levels are set out here.  Pathway specific entry criteria:   Clinical Forensic Psychiatry  Applicants should be qualified and experienced clinicians, e.g. psychiatrists (staff grade, ST4, consultant), psychologists (chartered with the BPS), senior mental health nurses, occupational therapists in a forensic service or working with forensic patients.  Forensic Mental Health Research  We are looking for evidence of a genuine interest in, and aptitude for, research as well as forensic mental health. Please supply your degree transcript as we will look particularly at marks for research methods, statistics and your undergraduate dissertation.  Clinical Forensic Psychology  Candidates must have Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) with the BPS. For more information on GBC and careers in forensic psychology in the UK, please consult the BPS website: http://www.bps.org.uk Note:  By the time of starting the programme, it is recommended that students have some relevant clinical or forensic experience working with people with psychological difficulties, people who have offended, or victims of crime. Please contact us for advice if necessary to establish whether your work experience would be considered relevant.