Entry requirements Before making your  application, we recommend that you   contact a staff member whose expertise matches your area of interest   to discuss your proposed project, CV and potential supervisory arrangements. A Bachelor&rsquo;s or Master&rsquo;s degree with: a. Adequate level of academic achievement A final degree classification (grade average) of  at least a 2.1 or Merit in the UK system (the second highest classification after First/Distinction).  Results from institutions in other countries will be assessed individually according to this standard. Your existing degree does not have to be in psychology as long as the statistics training requirement  is met (please see below) and your proposed supervisor and the Director of Graduate Studies (Research) are satisfied with the suitability of your academic background. If it  is in a different subject, or if it is not accredited by the British Psychological Society, please ask your academic referee  to complete our   Pro-forma for  graduate research programmes   and email it to   psypgadmissions@kent.ac.uk . b. Statistics and research methods training in the social sciences This  programme includes a one-year statistics sequence which you must normally pass in order to receive your award. The teaching assumes that you are  familiar with the following topics:    Means and standard deviations Distributions, hypothesis testing and statistical significance t-tests Correlation coefficients Variables and measurement   Therefore, your existing degree transcript should note  that you have taken and passed  a minimum of one term each in statistics and social science research methods courses (or two terms of a joint statistics and research methods course). It is possible to be exempted from the statistics training at Kent if there is sufficient evidence that you have already completed equivalent training in a previous qualification.    General entry requirements Please also see our   general entry requirements .   English language entry requirements For detailed information see our   English language requirements   web pages.   Please note that if you are required to meet an English language condition, we offer a number of pre-sessional courses in English for Academic Purposes through  Kent International Pathways .