Entry requirements 1.Degree requirement a. GBC status You must hold, or have applied for Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC, formerly GBR) with the British Psychological Society (BPS). Please note that Graduate Membership of the BPS is not accepted. You will normally have GBC status if you hold a Psychology honours degree accredited by the BPS. Otherwise,  you can apply to have your existing degree assessed by the BPS, or take a conversion course .   If you are not sure whether you hold GBC status, please contact the   BPS   directly.  b. Adequate level of academic achievement You must also hold a Bachelor's or Master's degree with a  classification (grade average) of  a high 2.1 (i.e. average grade of 65 or over)  or Merit in the UK system (the second highest classification after First/Distinction). Results from institutions in other countries will be assessed individually according to this standard. c. Statistics and research methods training in the social sciences This programme includes a one-year statistics sequence which you must normally pass in order to receive your award. The teaching assumes that you are familiar with the following topics:    Means and standard deviations Distributions, hypothesis testing and statistical significance t-tests Correlation coefficients Variables and measurement   Therefore, your existing degree transcript should note that you have taken and passed a minimum of one term each in statistics and social science research methods courses (or two terms of a joint statistics and research methods course). 2. Forensic-related work/research experience We favour applicants with voluntary (or in some cases paid) work/research experience in a forensic setting, for example victim support, the police, the prison service, the NHS, or forensic-relevant charities. A reference is required from the relevant organisation.    General entry requirements Please also see our   general entry requirements .   English language entry requirements For detailed information see our   English language requirements   web pages.   Please note that if you are required to meet an English language condition, we offer a number of pre-sessional courses in English for Academic Purposes through  Kent International Pathways .