Course structure


 You can register for the full MSc programme or undertake stand-alone modules. Modules can be put together to form a short course programme. Module length varies from five to 15 credits.

For the PCert, you must complete 60 credits, of which at least 20 must be from core modules. Diploma students must complete 120 credits, of which at least 40 credits must be from core modules. To gain the MSc, you must complete a 60-credit research project, write a dissertation and present the results as a poster.




 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

    
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Assessment includes case study analysis, critical appraisal of literature, assignments including short essays, a research project and dissertation.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   This programme aims to:

 equip healthcare professionals with the skills and knowledge to contribute effectively to medicines management services and to individual drug therapy decisions in primary and secondary care.
 enable you to incorporate your learning directly into your workplace and to rise to the challenges presented by the new, patient-centred NHS.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You will gain knowledge and understanding of:

 medicines management
 applied therapeutics
 adherence, concordance and compliance
 effective methods of working with patients and other healthcare professionals
 ethical issues influencing prescribing decisions
 pharmaceutical care planning and medication review
 individualising therapy in a variety of patient settings and conditions
 drug monitoring in the context of co-morbidities
 clinical governance in the context of medicines management
 effective use of complex clinical data sets
 public health and its role in improving the health of the nation
 health economics
 management.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in:

 recognising, synthesising and applying appropriate theories, concepts and principles from a range of disciplines and sources
 integrating previous learning with professional skills and expertise to synthesise innovative approaches to medicines management in order to support individualised patient care
 making sound judgements about medication issues in the absence of complete data and communicating conclusions clearly to specialist and non-specialist audiences
 analysing and resolving your own learning needs
 contributing to the improvement of health outcomes for populations and individuals through reflective practice and innovation
 strategic planning
 experimental design, use of appropriate research and statistical techniques.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 the planning, conduct, evaluation, interpretation and reporting the results of clinical investigations in the context of defined patient outcomes
 the ability to search for information and evidence to inform and support individualised drug therapy decisions
 effective communication of drug therapy decisions to patients and other healthcare professionals
 the management of professional teams, working with other organisations, self-management.

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You will gain the following transferable skills:

 critical self-reflection and the ability to enhance professional competence on the basis of feedback from yourself and others
 the ability to communicate with clarity in both the academic and professional setting to a range of audiences and using a variety of approaches
 the ability to effectively manage and present complex information using a comprehensive range of learning resources. 