Course structure


 The MA in Philosophy comprises four 30-credit coursework modules (for a total of 120 credits) and a dissertation (60 credits).  There are two ways to receive credit for these modules:


 MA students are expected to attend, and may choose to be assessed on the basis of essays on topics covered in, our  Graduate Seminars. The seminars are divided into two streams: Theoretical Reasoning
, and History of Philosophy and Practical Philosophy
. Topics covered vary each year in line with current staff research. Recent topics include the epistemology of disagreement, paradoxes, game theory, and Derek Parfit's  On What Matters
.
 In addition to attending the graduate seminars, MA students may, in consultation with the MA Programme Director, choose from a number of mixed undergraduate/graduate modules, typically assessed by a 4,000-word essay. The module offering varies from year to year. For a complete list of what is currently offered, please consult the  Stage 2/3 module list
.


Upon successful completion of the four coursework essays, students proceed to the writing of the dissertation.





 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

      
   PL805 - Special Topics I


   
    This module may be satisfied by a large number of mixed-level modules including, but not limited to: Greek Philosophy, Descartes-Kant, Hegel and Marx, Wittgenstein, Philosophy of Religion, Philosophy of Science, Philosophy of Mathematics, Advanced Topics in Mind and Language, Philosophy of Cognitive Science and AI, Philosophy of Medicine, Philosophy of Law, Aesthetics, Social Philosophy, Political Philosophy, Philosophy of Mind, Normative Ethics, Metaethics, Philosophy of War, etc.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   PL806 - Special Topics II


   
    This module may be satisfied by a large number of mixed-level modules including, but not limited to: Greek Philosophy, Descartes-Kant, Hegel and Marx, Wittgenstein, Philosophy of Religion, Philosophy of Science, Philosophy of Mathematics, Advanced Topics in Mind and Language, Philosophy of Cognitive Science and AI, Philosophy of Medicine, Philosophy of Law, Aesthetics, Social Philosophy, Political Philosophy, Philosophy of Mind, Normative Ethics, Metaethics, Philosophy of War, etc.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   PL855 - Theoretical Philosophy


   
    This module may be satisfied by a large number of mixed-level modules including, but not limited to: Logic, Philosophy of Language, Philosophy of Science, Philosophy of Mind, Epistemology, Metaphysics, Philosophy of Medicine, Descartes-Kant, Philosophy of Cognitive Science and Artificial Intelligence, etc.  


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   PL856 - Practical Philosophy


   
    This module may be satisfied by a large number of mixed-level lectures, seminars, and classes including, but not limited to: Aesthetics, Social Philosophy, Political Philosophy, Philosophy of Mind, Normative Ethics, Metaethics, Philosophy of War, etc.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   PL998 - Dissertation: Philosophy


   
    This is an independent study module with no specified curriculum. The dissertation is designed to provide students with the opportunity to undertake a focused and extended research project of their own devising on any topic within the study of philosophy. The dissertation involves student-directed learning and research with the aim of producing a structured and persuasive argument, demonstrating (where appropriate) a command of the technical language of philosophy, as well as knowledge derived from cognate disciplines.


    Credits: 60 credits
     (30 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

 
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Assessment is by coursework essays of 4,000 words and the dissertation of 8-10,000 words.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   The programme aims to:

 provide you with the knowledge and skills to prepare you for academic philosophical study at MPhil/PhD level
 attract outstanding students, irrespective of race, background, gender, or physical disability from within the UK
 further the University&rsquo;s International Strategy by attracting students, as above, from abroad as well
 enable you to deepen your knowledge of work in the key areas of theoretical and practical philosophy
 enable you to begin to specialise in your areas of interest
 provide you, consistent with point one above, with a transition from undergraduate study to independent research in philosophy
 provide you with a training that will culminate, if followed through to PhD level, in the ability to submit articles to refereed journals in academic philosophy.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You gain knowledge and understanding in:

(Several specific areas of the discipline based on a critical study of the relevant literature)

 the ideas and arguments of some of the major philosophers in the history of the subject, encountered in their own writings, from the ancient Greek philosophers to the present day
 central theories and arguments in the fields of logic, metaphysics, epistemology, and philosophy of mind, including such topics as existence, truth, certainty , meaning, causality, free will, and the relation of mind and body
 central theories and arguments in the fields of moral, political and social philosophy, including such topics as the nature of judgements about right and wrong, human rights, duties and obligations, the relation between the individual and society, freedom, and justice
 the relevance of philosophical ideas to other disciplines and areas of enquiry such as literature, the arts, religion, law, politics, and social studies
 the applicable techniques for research and advanced academic enquiry in philosophy, as well as the general ability to conceptualise, design and implement the final project (dissertation) and to adjust it in the light of unforeseen problems.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in

 listening attentively to complex presentations; using powers of analysis and imagination
 reading carefully a variety of technical and non-technical material
 using libraries effectively
 reflecting clearly and critically on oral and written sources
 marshalling a complex body of information
 remembering relevant material and bringing it to mind when needed
 constructing cogent arguments in the evaluation of this material
 formulating independent ideas and defending them with cogent arguments.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 the ability to conduct arguments about matters of the highest moment without recourse to insult or susceptibility to take offence
 the willingness to evaluate opposing arguments, to formulate and consider the best arguments for different views and to identify the weakest elements of the most persuasive view
 honesty in recognising the force of the conclusions warranted by a careful assessment of pertinent arguments
 articulacy in identifying underlying issues in all kinds of debate
 precision of thought and expression in the analysis and the formulation of complex and controversial problems
 sensitivity in interpretation of texts drawn from a variety of ages and/or traditions
 clarity and rigour in the critical assessment of arguments presented in such texts
 the ability to use and criticise specialised philosophical terminology
 the ability to abstract, analyse and construct sound arguments and to identify logical fallacies
 the ability to recognise methodological errors, rhetorical devices, unexamined conventional wisdom, unnoticed assumptions, vagueness and superficiality
 the ability to move between generalisation and appropriately detailed discussion, inventing or discovering examples to support or challenge a position, and distinguishing relevant and irrelevant considerations
 the ability to consider unfamiliar ideas and ways of thinking, and to examine critically pre-suppositions and methods within the discipline itself.  

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You gain the following transferable skills:

 working with others: participating in seminar discussions, responding to the views of others and to criticisms of your own views without giving or taking offence, engaging in independent group work, including the running of the graduate seminar
 using information technology: using online information sources, word processing essays, using email for receiving and responding to communications
 communication: producing focused and cogent written presentations summarising information and assessing arguments, giving oral presentations, using visual aids where appropriate
 problem-solving: identifying problems, assessing the strengths and weaknesses of different solutions, defending your own solutions with cogent arguments
 improving your learning: identifying your strengths and weaknesses, assessing the quality of your own work, managing your time and meeting deadlines, learning to work independently. 