Overview


The School has a long tradition of high-quality research among its staff and students. The School&rsquo;s vibrant research culture attracts students from all over the world who conduct research at the forefront of our discipline.

Our research programmes provide a combination of formal research training and individual supervision within a supportive environment, with regular interaction between staff and students. For example, the School runs a weekly Graduate Research Training Seminar, where students are encouraged to present their work and receive feedback from peers and staff. Students enjoy regular meetings with a supervisor and supervisory team, and are also given opportunities to collaborate with other members of staff through the staff research seminar and the activities of the four research centres
.

Students are encouraged to participate in the annual postgraduate research conference, during which various staff members discuss the work of research students, and outside speakers offer plenary lectures.   Research students will also be able to benefit from the skills training offered by the University&rsquo;s Graduate School.

The breadth of expertise
 within the School enables us to provide research supervision on a very wide range of topics across  the area of International Relations.

Current projects of students studying in this area include:   Evolving Sino-South Korean Relations: Interplay between National Identity and Interests, NAFTA-Land Security: The M&eacute;rida Initiative, Transnational Threats, and U.S. Security Projection in Mexico, Mediation as a Preventive Diplomacy Instrument: A Comparative Study of International Mediation in Cyprus and Northern Ireland, Readdressing the relationship between political philosophy and International Organisations , The Land of Maybe: Faroese Foreign Policy Decision-Making at the European Crossroads and A Phronetic Approach to the Theory and Practice of Humanitarian Intervention.



 
  National ratings

  In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014, research by the School of Politics and International Relations was ranked 15th for research power and in the top 20 in the UK for research impact.

An impressive 96% of our research was judged to be of international quality and the School&rsquo;s environment was judged to be conducive to supporting the development of research of international excellence.
 


 
  
   Contact us or order a prospectus 