Overview


This degree provides experienced practitioners with the opportunity to obtain an MD (broadly equivalent to a PhD) after a period of research.

The degree lasts between two and five years and you usually conduct your research alongside your normal clinical employment in an appropriate medical position. You can do your research either at the University or in a recognised medical institution in the region. You can obtain the degree either by pursuing a programme of research after registration, or by submitting a portfolio of publications, together with a summary description and documentation.

About the School of Biosciences

The School of Biosciences is among the best-funded schools of its kind in the UK, with current support from the BBSRC, NERC, MRC, Wellcome Trust, EU, and industry. It has has 36 academic staff, 56 research staff (facility managers, research fellows, postdoctoral researchers and technicians), approximately 100 postgraduate students and 20 key support staff. The  school's vibrant atmosphere has  expanded  to become  a flourishing environment to  study for postgraduate degrees in a notably friendly and supportive teaching and research environment.

In addition to research degrees, our key research strengths underpin a range of unique and career-focused taught Master&rsquo;s programmes that address key issues and challenges within the biosciences and pharmaceutical industries and prepare graduates for future employment.


 
  National ratings

  In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014, research by the School of Biosciences was ranked 7th for research intensity and in the top 20 in the UK for research output.

An impressive 93% of our research-active staff submitted to the REF and 100% of our research was judged to be of international quality, with 88% of this judged world-leading or internationally excellent. The School&rsquo;s environment was judged to be conducive to supporting the development research of international excellence.
 


 
  
   Contact us or order a prospectus 