Overview


The Centre offers excellent opportunities for full or part-time research in intellectual disability and community care leading to higher degrees.

The Tizard Centre has a strong track record of attracting University and ESRC research studentship funding.

About the Tizard Centre

The Tizard Centre is part of the School of Social Policy, Sociology and Social Research (SSPSSR) and has excellent links with health and social care organisations, and other relevant establishments.

The Centre is at the forefront of learning and research in autism, intellectual disability and community care, and in 2013 received a Queen&rsquo;s Anniversary Prize in recognition of its outstanding work in these areas.

The Centre has excellent links with health and social care organisations, and other relevant establishments. Our primary aims, through research, teaching and consultancy, are:

 to find out more about how to effectively support and work with people with learning disabilities
 to help carers, managers and professionals develop the values, knowledge and skills that enable better services
 to aid policymakers, planners, managers and practitioners to organise and provide enhanced services.


The Tizard Centre is recognised as leading the field in deinstitutionalisation and community living, challenging behaviour, quality of staff support, sexuality and autism, and has had a significant impact on national policies in these areas. We are committed to addressing issues arising from social inequality.


 
  National ratings

  In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014, research by the School of Social Policy, Sociology and Social Research was ranked 2nd for research power in the UK. The School was also placed 3rd for research intensity, 5th for research impact and 5th for research quality.

An impressive 94% of our research-active staff submitted to the REF and 99% of our research was judged to be of international quality. The School&rsquo;s environment was judged to be conducive to supporting the development of world-leading research, gaining the highest possible score of 100%.
 


 
  
   Contact us or order a prospectus 