Course structure


 The course is centred around a scenic etude of 30 minutes in the autumn term, and a production towards the end of the spring term, followed by a dissertation (which may include elements of practice-as-research). The emphasis within the group is on collaboration and mutual support between the students. Teaching includes classroom sessions on histories and practices of theatre direction, as well as weekly studio sessions and unsupervised studio time with the entire group, as well as rehearsals for the projects. There are also regular workshops by professional theatre artists during Autumn and early Spring term.  

Please note: The programme can be studied part-time, however it requires extended presence for the practical projects in autumn term of Year 1 and spring term of Year 2.





 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.

&bull;       Rehearsal Processes (45 credits) [Autumn Term]
&bull;       Production Project (30 credits) [Spring Term/Year 2 for part-time students]
&bull;       Directing Histories   Practices (30 credits) [yearlong / split over both years for part-time students]
&bull;       Theatre Direction Casebook (15 credits) [yearlong / split over both years for part-time students]
&bull;       Dissertation (60 credits; thesis or practice-as-research with thesis; submission date 31 August [of Year 2 for part-time students])


 

    
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Assessment points include a scenic etude (group project), performance project; reflective essay on rehearsal practice; research essay on theatre/directing history; a practice study about a director or company, potentially supported by a placement/shadowing/internship period;   a casebook of critical writing and analysis about productions you have seen; a concept paper/research for your production; and a final dissertation project. 