Course structure


 You take the following core modules over a series of extended taught weekends:

 Learning and Development in  Organisations (30 credits)
 Inter-professional Working (15 credits)
 Evidence-Based Practice (15 credits)


Taught sessions are delivered in a welcoming, supportive and flexible academic environment, by an academic team with extensive professional practitioner experience. They are experienced in delivering work-related programmes and understand the constraints of balancing a career with the demands of higher education.




 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

    
  
 






   Assessment

  
   As the prime objective is to enhance professional practice  applied within the workplace you will be expected to demonstrate an appropriate level of conceptual and analytical skills.

All assessment tasks are designed to allow you to develop expertise in the application of professional practice within the context of your work and specialist subject area.

Assessments can be through:

 Oral presentations
 Written assignments
 Work-based projects
 Portfolio assessments

  

 
   Programme aims

  
   The programme aims to:

 Foster your  intellectual and professional development  and deepen your analytical and critical reasoning capabilities through practice-based learning.
 Develop  competence in applying theoretical and practice skills to advance change and leadership in organisations.
 Equip you with the knowledge and understanding to enhance and extend your professional practice experience through work-based learning.
 Enable you to develop skills in higher level reflection in relation to work-based practice.
 Provide you with opportunities to gain interdisciplinary perspectives on professional practice through collaborative inter/multidisciplinary exchange.
 Develop your  critical and analytical capabilities  in relation to project management, data analysis and interpretation of data.
 Provide supervision for advanced practitioner-centred research that builds a culture of critical evaluation and enquiry in the practice environment.
 Equip you for your role in challenging, questioning and realigning strategies for work-based practice.
 Equip you to  actively participate in shaping strategic organisational interests.
 Develop opportunity for self-directed learning and reflection.
 Enable you to  participate in learning which seeks to capture reflection on experience gained in every day organisational practice.
 Enhance your programme of personal development.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You gain knowledge and understanding of:

 experiential learning, such as theory, concepts and how they apply to practice
 reflection on learning, leadership styles and approaches gained through practice
 principles of strategic-decision making in organisations
 principles and practice involved in inter-professional working
 reflective evaluation in relation to theoretical methodological frameworks
 principles of theory testing in practice in relation to enhancing and developing practice
 project management skills
 professional knowledge in your special area of practice
 your professional profile in relation to current practice that informs into personal career plans.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in the following:

 presenting critical, analytical reasoning and experiential learning in organised, written and oral formats
 the critical analysis of case studies
 engaging in experiential learning that demonstrably enhances practice
 the ability to develop a reflective professional portfolio.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 engaging with members of multidisciplinary teams
 strategic operational planning for organisations
 being able to demonstrate an in-depth understanding of change management
 being able to enagage with evidence-based practice
 methodologies for evaluating analysing and appraising organisational practice.

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You gain transferable skills in the following:

 evaluation
 report writing
 reflection on experiential learning
 effective use of skills related to experiential learning in a practice setting, to establish a future personal plan within the context of professional development
 independent learning skills required for continuing professional development. 