Course structure


 The Postgraduate Certificate in Community Health Care programme is designed to be studied on a part-time basis for one year, through blended learning, with face-to-face teaching.

Core Modules:

 End of Life Care
 Safe Adminstration of Injectable Medicines
 Wound Care Medicine





 Modules


 The modules listed above are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.


 

    
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Assessment may be undertaken through the use of:

 Portfolios
 Oral presentations
 Case studies
 Seminar contributions
 Reflective learning logs
 Written assignments

  

 
   Programme aims

  
   
 Foster the intellectual and professional development of experienced practitioners to extend and deepen their analytical and critical reasoning capabilities underpinning practice-based learning.
 Develop experienced practitioners&rsquo; competence in applying theoretical and practice skills to advance leadership and change in health care organisations.
 Equip experienced practitioners for their role in challenging, questioning and realigning strategies relating to community health care practice.
 Develop the critical and analytical capabilities of experienced practitioners in relation to interpretation of data and practice.
 Contribute to the development and dissemination of evidence-based practice within professional contexts.
 Enhance the experienced practitioner&rsquo;s programme of personal development, reflective practice and impact.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   
 Experiential learning, theory, concepts and how they apply to practice.
 Duty of Care in relation to the wellbeing and health and safety of all people within the work place.
 The principles and practice involved in collaborative working.
 The need to recognise ethical and/or legal issues in their (and others) practice and manage any implications.
 The importance of rigour in collecting, analysing and interpreting data relevant to their practice discipline.
 The value of collecting relevant data in their practice area and critically analysing and evaluating in relation to informing and/or benefitting health care practice.
 The need to build and sustain professional relationships both as an independent practitioner and as a member of a team.
 The need to keep and maintain legible records and effective application of patient/client confidentiality and the principles of patient consent.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   
 The ability to contribute to the development of healthcare through reflective practice and innovation.
 Present critical, analytical reasoning and experiential learning into organised written and oral formats including case studies, presentations and reports.
 Demonstrate the ability to work independently, efficiently and professionally within NHS frameworks and professional codes of practice and conduct, with recognition of legal, moral and ethical issues whilst managing any conflicting priorities.
 Analyse qualitative and/or quantitative data to inform evidence-based enquiry.
 Recognise, value and use appropriately the theories, concepts and principles relating to community health care.
 Recognise the value of research and other scholarly activity to the systematic evaluation and development of professional practice.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   
 Demonstrate and apply an in-depth knowledge and understanding of Community Health Care informed by current scholarship and research, including a critical awareness of current issues and developments in the subject and their profession.
 Demonstrate respect for different cultures, ethnicities, values, views and beliefs and act in an appropriate manner taking into consideration patients/clients age,
 gender and clinical condition.
 Ability to use methods of enquiry to collect and interpret data in order to provide information that would inform or benefit practice.
 Demonstrate the ability to use a range of techniques applicable to their professional activities as a nursing practitioner.
 Apply specialist knowledge derived from applied practice.
 The ability to contribute effectively in inter-professional and multi-agency relationships in order to maximise health care outcomes.

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   
 Prepare and communicate information on complex contemporary issues in community health care to specialist and non-specialist audiences, to include oral presentations and report writing.
 To be an independent and autonomous learner (using learning resources, note taking, reading effectively and action planning).
   Demonstrate IT skills including the ability to search for, manage, manipulate and critically evaluate internet-based information/resources.
   Analyse, interpret and assess the value of evidence to inform problem solving.
 Ability to solve problems, draw conclusions and sustainable judgements and communicate the outcome.
 Use of appropriate numerical problem-solving skills.
 Ability to work independently and as part of a team within professional codes of practice and conduct.
 Develop a self-reflective element to learning and evaluate critically the outcomes of professional activities.
 Demonstrate appropriate communication and interpersonal skills in order to develop and maintain therapeutic relationships. 