Course structure


 The MSc is an intensive 12-month programme. You take six coursework modules over the first six months and then undertake a project and write a dissertation in the second six months.

Additionally, it is also possible to take modules from the list available for our  MA programmes in Anthropology
  and from our  MSc in Conservation Biology
  as un-assessed options. The modules available may include foundations of natural science for conservation, social science perspectives on conservation, population and evolutionary biology, nature tourism, principles and practice of ecotourism, integrated species conservation and management, trade, economics, regulation and the environment, conservation and community development, and managing protected areas.

The course will be supplemented with practical work, field visits to local sites of ethnobotanical interest (Blean woodland, national fruit collection at Brogdale, Canterbury Cathedral Library, phytomedical suppliers and practitioners), and through guest speakers involved in research in various parts of the world.

Dissertation and fieldwork

Students undertake intensive coursework between September and the end of March each academic year. Towards the end of this period, they develop a concept for a project and write a proposal, as part of their assessed work. The second six months of the programme consists entirely of project and dissertation work under the direction of an appropriate supervisor.  The supervisor can be from either Kent or Kew and you are encouraged to work on subjects where staff have particular expertise, while pursuing a research theme in a geographical area in which you have a particular interest.  

Students may select projects that are library, museum or lab-based, but many wish to undertake fieldwork (usually of six weeks duration)  and we try to facilitate this. Some students come to the programme with developed ideas about their projects, others may chose topics that relate to current work at Kew or Kent. For example, in recent years we have been able to provide modest financial support for projects related to our Leverhulme-funded British Homegardens Project, a linguistic diversity erosion project in Cameroon and through the Global Diversity Foundation. Examples of  MSc Dissertation titles
.

Kew are central partners to this programme. Find out full details
 of Kew's involvement and the plant resources module they teach on this programme.




 Modules


 Please note that modules are subject to change. Please contact the School for more detailed information on availability.


 

      
   SE840 - Contemporary Issues in Ethnobotany


   
    This module grows out of the enormous possibilities and challenges presented to ethnobotanists and environmental anthropologists during the twenty-first century: both to the huge potential created by cross-disciplinary and cross-cultural exchange, and to the enormous challenges that emerge as academia becomes increasingly accountable to a wider range of interests, problems and stakeholders amidst today's planetary crisis. It focuses on the multi-dimensional, complex and dynamic aspects of ethnobotanical, ethnoecological and human-environmental relations, with a special emphasis on the complex social roles and responsibilities of the subfields of ethnobotany and environmental anthropology. Drawing on recent articles and case-study materials from a diverse range of disciplines and perspectives, the module seeks to critically assess some of the key contemporary, at times controversial, issues relating to the material, symbolic, ecological, economic, cultural, historical, institutional and political dimensions of human-plant and human-environment relations.Topics covered include:-The multidimensionality of human-plant interactions-Approaches to ethnobiological variability and complexity-Ethnobotany, socio-environmental change and globalisation-Ethnoecology and symbolic ecology-Ethnobotany, ethnoecology and historical ecology-The chemical ecology of human-plant interactions-Plants, profit, property and power-Complexity, resilience and adaptive management-Agrobiodiversity, food and subsistence-Ethnobotany and forest product development-Conservation and environmental governance-Cultural landscapes


    Credits: 20 credits
     (10 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   SE802 - Research Methods in Social Anthropology


   
    The module will consist of twelve two hour classes consisting of short introductions to weekly topics by the course convenors followed by practical exercises to allow students to experience and learn by doing several key methods and tools used in anthropological fieldwork. Assignments based on the use of several methods, a research proposal abstract for their future dissertation project, and an essay will be used to assess the student's achievement of learning outcomes. Seminar topics may include: Introduction to research in the natural and social sciences, participant observation, choosing informants, interviewing, processing interview data, analysis and presentation of qualitative data, questionnaire design and analysis, developing an integrated research design, running workshops and focus groups, ethics and consent.


    Credits: 20 credits
     (10 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   SE831 - Environmental Anthropology


   
    This module introduces some of the main theoretical approaches and some practical applications of the study of environmental anthropology (in particular, the cultural ecology of Steward, the concepts of carrying capacity and limiting factors as used in eco-systematic models, historical and political ecology, and new approaches deriving from post-modern anthropology). It considers some of the main cultural and social aspects of the human-environment interface, such as the relationship between social organisation and ecology; alternative forms of land use and management; the impact of processes of globalization on human interactions with the environment in a number of non-western societies; and the cultural dimension of human adaptation to the environment. The middle section of the module looks at five categories of subsistence strategy and the environments they occur in, foraging and hunting (in arid, arctic and tropical forest ecosystems), fishing (coastal marine environments), pastoralism (in grassland and arid ecosystems), low intensity and high intensity agriculture (in arid, grassland and tropical environments).  For each of these production systems we will also examine a complementary contemporary issue in conservation and/or development. These issues may involve great debates in theory, problems of methodology or issues in applying research results to solve practical problems.  Throughout the module we address methods and problems of applying research in environmental anthropology to related development, conservation and human rights issues, and in particular this year we look at adaptation to climate change among Indigenous peoples.Week 1  Theory and Explanation in Environmental Anthropology: Wildlife TradeWeek 2  Human-Nature Relationships: Cultural EcologyWeek 3  Ecological Anthropology: Complex Adaptive SystemsWeek 4  Historical Ecology: The evolution of Biocultural diversity?Week 5  Political Ecology and Environmental DegradationWeek 6  Discursive Approaches: EnvironmentalismsWeek 7  Foraging societies, hunters, and the bushmeat tradeWeek 8  Fishers, Sea Tenure, and Common Property RightsWeek 9  Pastoralists, Grasslands and Protected AreasWeek 10 Low Intensity Agricultural Systems: Swidden SystemsWeek 11 High Intensity Agricultural Systems, the Green Revolution and GM cropsWeek 12 Climate Change: Studying local knowledge and responses


    Credits: 20 credits
     (10 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   SE832 - Ethnobiological Knowledge Systems


   
     Ethnobiology, anthropology and  indigenous knowledge The structure of ethnobiological categories  Ethnobiological classifications: the relations between categories Variation, change and the evolution of ethnobiological categories The cultural transmission of knowledge Knowledge and use of domesticates Classifying secondary biodiversity and ethnoecological knowledge Constructions of nature, natural history intelligence, and natural species as symbols, Plants in the evolution of human health and healing  Medicinal plants and theories of sickness and healing Measuring the significance of biological resources: the valuation debate Project presentations 


    Credits: 20 credits
     (10 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   SE836 - Introduction to Botanical Ethnobotany


   
     Plant Resource Pools a) Use of plant keys for identification. b) Plant collecting for voucher specimens. Processing and mounting plant specimens. Underutilised food plants - Sourcing appropriate botanical information. a) Two important plant families. b) Writing a plant profile. a) Food plants. b) Medicinal plants. Student Plant reports. Student Plant reports. Ethnopharmacology. Material culture  basket making.


    Credits: 20 credits
     (10 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   SE837 - Plant Resources and their Conservation


   
    Botanical information resourcesBasic taxonomy The role of the herbariumPlant systematics and family sortsTaxonomy of selected familiesCollecting plant specimens under tropical conditionsEthnobotanical research at KewYam ethnobotanyHistory of economic botany and the role of the botanic garden Chinese herbal medicinePlant phytochemistry in relation to ethnobotanyApplied Ethnobotany The module will ordinarily consist of 12 two-hour classes consisting of a 30-45 minute introduction by the teacher, followed by a discussion or practical. These are spread over four two-day blocks taught at Kew.


    Credits: 20 credits
     (10 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   SE839 - Dissertation: Ethnobotany


   
    Throughout the terms preceding the initiation of the dissertation module students will be encouraged by their supervisor and the instructors of other modules they take to develop ideas for their dissertation research project. They will also be taught appropriate research methods. The final double weighted essay of their pre-dissertation will draw together materials they have learned through the preceding terms and will synthesise these with students' research interests in order to set up a prospectus for the thesis proposal itself. Students who are then passed into the dissertation module by the examiners meeting will, on this basis, complete a written plan for their research project with advice from their tutor. This will be assessed by the tutor and by one other member of the post-graduate anthropology teaching staff, and when this is approved the student and his or her tutor will intensively discuss methods of data collection, theoretical models for the analysis of this material, and the use and integration of research methods into both its preparation and its final presentation. The student will then independently work on the thesis over the summer until mid-September when it will be submitted. Throughout this time the student will be able to gain supervision through electronic mail. 


    Credits: 60 credits
     (30 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

 
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Assessment is by written reports, oral presentations and the dissertation.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   This programme aims to:

 provide you with a broad range of knowledge in the major aspects of the subject, showing how these involve connections between a range of different academic disciplines
 provide you with advanced level knowledge of the theoretical, methodological and policy issues relevant to understanding the subdiscipline
 provide you with advanced level knowledge of the theoretical and methodological issues relevant to understanding the subject
 introduce you to a variety of different approaches to ethnobotanical research, presented in a multidisciplinary context and at an advanced level
 facilitate your educational experience through the provision of appropriate pedagogical opportunities for learning
 provide you with appropriate training if you are preparing MPhil/PhD theses, or going on to employment involving the use of ethnobotanical research
 make you aware of the range of existing material available and equip you to evaluate its utility for your research
 cover the principles of research design and strategy, including formulating research questions or hypotheses and translating them into practicable research designs
 introduce you to the philosophical, theoretical and ethical issues surrounding research and to debates about the relationship between theory and research, about problems of evidence and inference, and about the limits to objectivity
 develop skills in searching for and retrieving information, using library and internet resources in a multidisciplinary and cross-national context
 introduce you to the idea of working with other academic and non-academic agencies, when appropriate, and give you the skills to carry out collaborative research
 develop your skills in writing, in the preparation of a research proposal, in the presentation of research results and in verbal communication
 help you to prepare your research results for wider dissemination, in the form of seminar papers, conference presentations, reports and publications, in a form suitable for a range of different audiences, including academics, policymakers, professionals, service users and the general public
 give you an appreciation of the potentialities and problems of ethnobotanical research in local, regional, national and international settings
 ensure that the research of the Department&rsquo;s staff informs the design of modules, and their content and delivery in ways which can achieve the national benchmarks of the subject in a manner which is efficient and reliable, and enjoyable to students.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You will gain knowledge and understanding of:

 ethnobotany as the comparative and interdisciplinary study of the relationship between people and plants
 specific themes in ethnobotany eg plant conservation, medical ethnobotany, ethnobotanical knowledge systems
 cultural and biological diversity and an appreciation of its scope
 several ethnographic regions of the world including north Africa, South America. South Asia and Southeast Asia (in particular Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines)
 the history of the development of ethnobotany as a subject
 the variety of theoretical approaches contained within the subject
 the processes of biological and social change
 the application of ethnobotany to understanding issues of sustainable social and economic development and environmental conservation throughout the world
 the relevance of ethnobotany to understanding everyday processes of plant-human interaction anywhere in the world.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in:

 general learning and study skills
 critical and analytical skills
 expression of ideas both orally and in written form
 communication skills
 groupwork skills
 computing skills
 reviewing and summarising information
 data retrieval ability.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 understanding how people are shaped by their social, cultural and physical environments while nonetheless possessing a capacity for individual agency which can allow them to transcend some environmental constraints  
 recognising the pertinence of an ethnobotanical perspective to understanding major national and international events.
 interpreting plants by locating them within appropriate cultural and historical contexts
 high-level competence in using ethnobotanical theories and perspectives in the presentation of information and argument
 high-level ability to identify and analyse the significance of the social and cultural contexts of plant use
 devising questions for research and study which are anthropologically informed
 perceiving the way in which cultural assumptions may affect the perception and use of plants
 an openness to try and make rational sense of cultural and social phenomena related to plants that may appear at first sight incomprehensible.

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You will gain the following transferable skills:

 making a structured argument
 the ability to make appropriate reference to scholarly data
 time-management skills
 the use of information technology including computers and library research
 groupwork
 handling audio-visual equipment
 independent research
 presentation skills
 the ability to exercise initiative and personal responsibility
 have the independent learning ability required for continuing professional development. 