Course structure


 This programme offers an opportunity for HE professionals to deepen their understanding of principles, theoretical concepts and the policy context of HE. Practice-based specialist modules are combined with modules supporting the development of research skills, culminating in a dissertation for the MA. The emphasis throughout is on a critical understanding of the HE context and its implications for academic work in the 21st century.




 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

    
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Assessment is by a presentation of work in progress, an essay of up to 5,000 words for each module and a 12,000-word dissertation.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   This programme aims to:

 develop your knowledge and skills by focusing on principles, concepts and theoretical perspectives relevant to the study of higher education (HE)
 develop your capacity to analyse the implications of principles and policy for HE contexts and practice
 enable you to design, execute and communicate the results of a research project in your specialist area of study.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You gain knowledge and understanding of:

 current policy issues in higher education in its broadest sense
 principles, concepts and theoretical perspectives relevant to the study of higher education
 the implications of policy and theoretical perspectives for practice in higher education
 research methods appropriate to the study of higher education
 concepts of professionalism in higher education.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in:

 the ability to locate and critically evaluate relevant data, such as research materials and texts
 the ability to critically reflect on practice in context
 the ability to exercise initiative in planning and conducting research (pure and for applied   practice) and communicate the results of that research to broader communities, both specialist and non-specialists

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 analysing current policy issues in higher education and their implications for higher education contexts and practices
 showing an understanding of different conceptual bases of higher education, including differing interpretations of its nature and purposes
 critically evaluating the broader context of principles, policies and processes and   their impact on practice
 developing an area of specialist study in the field of higher education
 designing, developing and executing a research project.

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You gain the following transferable skills:

 organising and managing your own learning
 developing an understanding of a range of approaches and beliefs that inform higher education policy and practice
 developing the capacity to communicate research clearly and coherently (speech and writing) to specialist and non-specialist audiences. 