Overview


Qualifying as an actuary is a passport to a wide variety of careers in insurance companies, investments, pensions, health care and banking &ndash; not just in the UK, but throughout the world. Kent is one of a very few universities in the UK to teach the subject.

The PhD in Actuarial Science offers the opportunity to begin or consolidate your research career under the guidance of internationally renowned researchers and professionals in the School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science (SMSAS).

This research programme, which can be taken three to four years full-time or five to six years part-time, offers the opportunity to work in highly topical areas such financial modelling and estimation, quantification of diversification benefits, quantifying financial risks, and derivatives pricing. Applications for PhD research in these and other areas will be welcomed.

There's an active seminar programme involving a wide range of speakers and members of the PhD community regularly attend/present their work at leading conferences and institutes.

Before applying for this course, it is strongly recommended that you contact the School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science in the first instance to discuss your study plans with the programme director.

About the School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science (SMSAS)

The School has a strong reputation for world-class research and a well-established system of support and training, with a high level of contact between staff and research students. Postgraduate students develop analytical, communication and research skills.

In 2010 the Centre for Actuarial Science, Risk and Investment (CASRI) was set up within SMSAS to reflect the widening scope of the teaching and research of the staff. Areas of research interest include economic capital and risk management for financial services firms, mortality and longevity modelling, longevity indices and markets. Other research topics include genetics and insurance, insurance economics, pensions and corporate reporting.

The Centre includes 13 professionally qualified actuaries with many years&rsquo; practical experience in insurance and pensions, and who maintain excellent links with the actuarial profession.


 
  National ratings

  In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014, research by the School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science was ranked 25th in the UK for research power and 100% or our research was judged to be of international quality.

An impressive 92% of our research-active staff submitted to the REF and the School&rsquo;s environment was judged to be conducive to supporting the development of world-leading research.
 


 
  
   Contact us or order a prospectus 