Course structure


 The programme consists of research training, two compulsory 30-credit modules and two 30-credit subject options, plus a dissertation.

You spend the autumn and spring terms viewing and discussing films in modules that are designed to address a range of practical and theoretical issues, including authorship, genre, stardom, style, modernity, nationalism and internationalism. Seminars will also cover debates in philosophy and film theory on the nature of filmic representation and its relationship to language, art, emotion, and consciousness.

The spring term in Paris will allow you to focus more on French cinema and its context, and to consider the impact of French critics and filmmakers on the wider discipline of Film Studies. In the summer term you will complete your one-year MA by writing a dissertation of up to 15,000 words on a topic agreed with tutors.




 Modules


 During the first term, you take two 30-credit taught-course modules from your chosen MA pathway. You then spend the second term in Paris, studying two modules from a choice which varies from year to year and includes the list below, or go to Paris
  
Module Collection
  
Spring 2015.

This means that during the spring term you are free to construct your own programme from across the range of modules available, making it as focussed or as inter-disciplinary as you like. You have plenty of time during the autumn term to make informed decisions about your programme of studies in Paris.

All the spring-term modules have been designed to be specifically relevant to your experience of living and studying in Paris.You are encouraged to make full use of the city&rsquo;s cultural resources and to integrate these into your studies which means you will be able to explore and discover connections between history, literature, the visual arts and other media.


 

      
   FI812 - Advanced Film Theory


   
    This course examines the historical trajectory of systematic writing about film. Topics include the aesthetic strategies of film in contrast with other arts; films relationship with reality; the interdisciplinary reach of Film Studies; and the particular kinds of engagement into which cinema invites its audience.  As a goal, the course should help students understand the major theoretical debates, empower them to better informed analyses, and challenge their assumptions about what film canor shouldbe and do. 


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   FI813 - Film History


   
    This course examines film history and historiography through case study. In carrying out this investigation students will be encouraged to work with archive and primary sources held in the library in order to help them to evaluate and contest received histories, which may be based on an aesthetic, technological, economic, and/or social formations. Through this investigation students will be better able to understand the role and value of the contextual study of film, while giving them the opportunity to research and write on an aspect of film history. The choice of case study will depend upon the expertise of the module convenor and is not restricted to a particular national cinema or period.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   FI815 - Film and Modernity


   
    This module explores the history of film in France, with a particular focus on the role and representation of Paris in cinema of the pre-World War II years. The module examines the medium of film, considering its specific qualities as an art-form and also the ways in which it is influenced by and influences other artistic and cultural forms from its beginnings in the caf&eacute;s of Paris to the establishment of the Cin&eacute;math&egrave;que in the wake of World War II. Each week we will be considering the other artistic forms that were being produced at the same time as the films that are the focus of discussions. Simultaneously, the module will expose the intimate relationship between the development of the modern city and the development of the cinema, with a particular focus on Paris and the ramifications of its modernisation. The module specifically seeks to assess the historical place of the cinema within the development of early twentieth- century culture in Paris. To this end our reading will range from the work of early French film theorists, through critical theorists, geographers, urban planners and cultural historians.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   FI998 - Dissertation:GPMS


   
    The dissertation is your opportunity to really explore the aspects of Film Studies that interest you most. You are encouraged to read as widely as you can. Exploit the Templeman library resources, and all the on-line facilities available to you through the library portals. Of course, watch relevant films too. The more research you do, the richer your experience.You can begin your independent dissertation research at any point and t is good idea to do have done some groundwork before you meet your supervisor.The main period for supervision is in the summer term, when you can expect to meet with your supervisor to discuss the progress of your reading and writing. You can expect up to four supervisory meetings, reasonably spread across the term.You should also arrange to meet your supervisor once in the Spring term in order to discuss the focus of your project, and also the kind of research you could begin to undertake in the Spring and Summer terms.The summer vacation period is a period of independent research, and supervision is not available.Your supervisor may agree to give you email feedback on a section of your draft during the summer vacation period, but you will need to arrange that with them well in advance.


    Credits: 60 credits
     (30 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

 
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Assessment is by coursework and the dissertation.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   The programme aims to:

 develop your understanding and skills to a notably higher level of sophistication and achievement (appropriate to an Master&rsquo;s level award) than would be expected at degree level, such that you leave the programme with a substantial analytic and critical understanding of film and film studies
 develop your understanding and skills to the level necessary for entry into a research programme in film
 develop your ability to think independently, argue with clarity and force, to discern areas of research interest within the field and be able to frame viable research questions
 allow you to spend your first term in Canterbury, studying modules in film, and to spend your second term in Paris developing your interest in cinema within the context of city often seen to be central to the aesthetic developments of filmmaking and critical approaches central to the history of the discipline
 consider the impact of French critics and filmmakers on the wider discipline of film
 provoke reflection on areas of critical and theoretical approaches to French cinema and its context
 nurture the intellectual skills cited above in the context of written work (essays and dissertations) as well as in the context of interpersonal interaction (seminars, research papers, supervision)
 provide access to enhanced intercultural awareness and understanding through the opportunity to study in Paris
 provide opportunities for the development of personal, communication and research skills and other key skills appropriate for graduate employment both in industry and in the public sector.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You gain knowledge and understanding of:

 the interpretation and evaluation of film
 concepts and practices integral to the production and reception of films, including authorship, genre, stardom, style, modernity, nationalism and internationalism, with an emphasis on the French context
 processes and conceptualisations of pleasure and identification in film
 debates in film theory, and in philosophy, pertaining to the nature of filmic representation, and its relationship with language, art, emotion, and consciousness
 Modernism as an international movement in literature and art and the role of Paris as a site of modernist experimentation
 the cultural history of modern Paris, as reflected in art and literature.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in:

 the ability to construct arguments and adduce appropriate evidence at a level appropriate for original research
 questionning assumptions generally taken for granted at degree level
 designing and implementing research projects informed by classical humanities approaches, including philosophy, literary theory, and history, with a particular emphasis
 grasping how methods drawn from the social and natural sciences (such as economics and psychology) might inflect or inform research projects within the humanities.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 analysing, with precision, the images and sounds which comprise films
 analysing narrative and other forms and structures shaping films
 drawing on intellectual knowledge, methods and techniques drawn from other disciplines (such as psychoanalysis, philosophy, and literary theory) in the study of film
 mastery of the vocabularies developed to enhance the analysis and understanding of film and related media
 articulating, in written and oral contexts, an understanding of film commensurate with the first four programme aims noted above
 developing a comprehensive knowledge of the cultural development of modern Paris, as expressed in literature and art.

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You will gain the following transferable skills:

 the ability to communicate effectively in both oral and written contexts, at a level appropriate for the conduct of original research
 the ability to create, manage and self-direct essays and research projects, with the advice and supervision of teaching staff
 the ability to integrate skills of argument and reasoning with those of empirical observation
 the ability to contribute effectively to the exploration of a question or problem in the context of group discussion and analysis, through a combination of intervention, leading of discussion, and focussed attention to others
 the ability to deploy the subject-specific understanding of the nature of film and related media &ndash; in relation to, for example, social and ethical questions &ndash; in the context of participation in society as workers and citizens
 the ability to use various IT skills, ranging from word-processing and audio-visual presentation to research through web-based sources, at a level of sophistication commensurate with the production of original research
 Living and working in diverse cultural environments: you will participate and work in academic communities in both Canterbury and Paris. You will thus develop cultural knowledge and understanding, flexibility, imagination, resourcefulness and tolerance. 