Course structure






 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

      
   FR804 - Real Fictions: The Documentation of Modernity


   
    The nineteenth-century novel has traditionally been seen in terms of categories or movements such as romanticism, realism, and naturalism. This module, rather than viewing novels in terms of their supposed adherence to the principles of particular aesthetic movements, reads a selection of nineteenth-century French novels as documentary fictions: fictions which document the modernity that makes them possible, and which are underpinned by incorporative documentary practices for which that modernity is also a condition of possibility. Of particular interest will be the ways in which contemporary discourses from various fields (medicine, science, historiography, social thought) are incorporated into these fictions. Rather than identifying sources, however, the emphasis will be on situating fictional texts in their wider discursive and epistemological contexts, and identifying points of commonality between literary and extraliterary discourses.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   FR807 - Postmodern French Detective Fiction


   
    This module examines a selection of French novels from the post-war period to the present day. Each of these novels employs the tropes of detective fiction as part of a wider literary project. The module invites students to analyse the ways in which the hermeneutic imperative of detective fiction is deployed within literary (and often experimental) fiction from this period. The corpus will include nouveaux romans, works by the Oulipo writer Georges Perec, the postmodern detective fictions of Pennac and Echenoz, and Am&eacute;lie Nothombs autofiction. Students will be encouraged to explore questions of genre fiction, the productive interplay between genre fiction and literary fiction during this period, and the ways in which the tropes of detective fiction are used during the postmodern period to explore questions of knowledge, truth and identity. 


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   FR866 - Literature and Theory


   
    This module will introduce students to a wide range of theoretical positions with the aim of enriching their understanding and appreciation of literature and critical practice.  We will begin with the thinking of Nietszche and Freud, before examining that of Saussure, Benjamin, L&eacute;vi-Strauss, Genette, Foucault, Lacan, Derrida, Deleuze and Guattari, Kristeva, Cixous, and Irigaray.  As well as encouraging a critical engagement with the claims of the theories themselves the module will examine a number of representative theoretical readings of literary works. Students will learn to evaluate these various thinkers and use their ideas, as appropriate, in their own writing.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   FR872 - Theories of Art in Modern French Thought


   
    This module examines a selection of pre-eminent texts in modern French art theory and philosophy. It invites students to analyse and to chart intersections and developments in French writing on the image across shifting critical landscapes, including those marked by phenomenology, structuralism and post-structuralism. Students will be encouraged to explore French theories of art with due attention to historical precedents, and to reflect on the aesthetic, political and technological significance of the visual arts for a wide range of French thinkers.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   FR998 - French Dissertation


   
    This module is subject to change, pending Faculty approval.


    Credits: 60 credits
     (30 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

 
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Assessment is by one 5,000-word essay for each module and the dissertation.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   The programme aims to:

 attract and meet the needs of candidates who wish to gain an in-depth understanding of textual and visual interconnections pertaining to modern French studies
 provide you with a cultural approach to the study of relations between the visual and the textual
 consider the manner in which literature and the visual arts intersect in French culture from the eighteenth century to the present
 provoke critical reflection on areas of modern French literary studies and theories of visual studies
 provide training in multidisciplinary research methods
 build on your proficiencies in spoken and written French
 introduce you to various methodological approaches
 provide teaching which is informed by current research and scholarship and which requires you to engage with aspects of work at the frontiers of knowledge
 provide you with a means of access to intellectual awareness and understanding
 provide opportunities for the development of your personal, communication, research and other key skills appropriate for graduate employment both in industry and in the public sector
 develop your general critical, analytical and problem-solving skills which can be applied in a wide range of situations.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You gain knowledge and understanding in:

 speaking, reading and writing French at an advanced level
 theories of art from the eighteenth century to the present
 the representation of works of art in literature from the eighteenth century to the present
 the relationship between literary texts and their cinematic adaptations
 the manipulation of photography in modern works of literature
 the use of photography as a means of propaganda.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in:

 oral and written language usage
 problem-solving: the ability to reason logically, critically and analogically
 research methodology: the ability to gather, organise and deploy evidence, data and information from a variety of secondary and primary sources
 the ability to identify, investigate, analyse, formulate and advocate solutions to problems
 the ability to develop reasoned arguments, synthesise relevant information and exercise critical judgement
 learning to work in a different environment by integrating into the educational, cultural and professional environment of England, with regards to an interdisciplinary approach to literary studies.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 communicating effectively in French
 developing a reading speed in French
 developing a detailed knowledge and effective understanding of the various structures and registers of French
 analysing a variety of French sources, both textual and visual
 refining your reception (listening and reading) skills in addition to your production skills (speaking and writing)
 developing an appreciation of a variety of art forms and their lines of convergence.

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You gain the following transferable skills:

 the ability to communicate orally at a high standard
 the ability to produce written work of a high standard to comply with French style guidelines
 the ability to undertake group tasks that will enable you to resolve conflicts in an interdisciplinary environment
 a high level of competence in information processing, using relevant databases and online research
 time management. 