Overview


Kent offers an excellent environment for postgraduate study in French literature, thought, culture, society and the visual arts from the 18th century to the present. 

A PhD in French
 enables you to undertake a substantial piece of supervised research in the subject that makes an original contribution to knowledge and is worthy of publication.

Over the duration of the PhD, you produce an original piece of research of up to 100,000 words, in English or in French.  Previous doctoral theses
 have included &lsquo;Deleuze and Anti-Humanism: The Sense of Deleuze's Spinozism&rsquo;, &lsquo;Haptic Experience in the Writings of Georges Bataille, Maurice Blanchot and Michel Serres&rsquo;, &lsquo;Le Livre Ferm&eacute;
: The Fortune of Rousseau's Educational ideas in the Primary Schools of England and France during the 1960s&rsquo;, &lsquo;Photobiographies: pour une ecriture de notation de la vie (Roland Barthes, Denis Roche, Annie Ernaux)&rsquo;, and &lsquo;De l'abject et du sublime: Georges Bataille, Jean Genet, Samuel Beckett&rsquo;.

The Department of Modern Languages
  offers supervision from world-class academics with expertise in a wide range of disciplines, able to support and guide you through your research.   Your progress is carefully monitored to ensure that you are on track to produce a thesis valued by the academic community. Throughout your programme, you are able to attend and contribute to research seminars, workshops, and research and transferable skills training courses.

The University of Kent is an ideal location to study French.  Canterbury is the closest British university city to mainland Europe, and our proximity to the Channel ports and Ashford International station means you can be in Paris in just a couple of hours. PhD students may also benefit from  
an optional year in Paris  at the &Eacute;cole Normale Sup&eacute;rieure.  

  


 
  National ratings

  In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014, modern languages and linguistics was ranked 3rd for research quality, 3rd for research output and in the top 20 for research intensity, research impact and research power in the UK.

Our submission was the highest ranked nationally to include modern languages &ndash; a testament to our position as the UK&rsquo;s European university. An impressive 100% of our research was judged to be of international quality and the School&rsquo;s environment was judged to be conducive to supporting the development of world-leading research.
 


 
  
   Contact us or order a prospectus 