Course structure


The course structure below gives a flavour of the modules that will be available to you and provides details of the content of this programme. This listing is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation. Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take &lsquo;wild&rsquo; modules from other programmes offered by the University in order that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas of interest to you or that may further enhance your employability.

Programme structure

Stage 1

 Introduction to Physiology and Pharmacology (30 credits)
 Introduction to Biosciences (30 credits)
 Medicines Design and Manufacture (30 credits)
 Basic Laboratory Skills (15 credits)
 Analytical Techniques in Pharmacology (15 credits)


Stage 2

 Pharmacokinetics (15 credits; core)
 Cardiovascular Respiratory and Renal Pharmacology (15 credits; core)
 Immunopharmacology and Microbiology (15 credits; core)
 Endocrine and Gastrointestinal Pharmacology (15 credits; core)
 Research Methods in Pharmacology (15 credits; core)
 Neuropharmacology (15 credits; core)
 Introduction to Toxicology (15 credits; elective)
 Introduction to Biopharmaceuticals and Gene Therapy (15 credits; elective)


Stage 3

 Receptor Mechanisms and Molecular Pharmacology (15 credits; core)
 Clinical Pharmacology (15 credits; core)
 Professional Skills in Pharmacology (15 credits; core)
 Drug Discovery and Development (15 credits; core)
 Pharmacology Physiology Project (30 credits; core)
 Advanced Neuropharmacology (15 credits; elective)
 Advanced Cell and Molecular Biology (15 credits; elective)






 
  Year in industry

  
   Industry-based laboratory work experience will be open to students completing the year in industry which will entail working in an industrial laboratory research environment.

The principal laboratory activities will take place in an industrial laboratory. The placement will normally begin following the second year. During their placement, students will have the opportunity to put into practice skills they have acquired during their first two years of the programme, as well as acquire new skills that would enhance their future employability. The School will support the students in the application process to attain their placement for those students who have elected to undertake the the year in industry option. However it is the responsibility of the student to secure the placement. Students will maintain contact with their personal tutors during their  year in industry.

Placements will normally be in a pharmaceutical/drug discovery company or government research institute. Students may work in the UK or abroad for their placement. 