Programme structure

Professional development planning (PDP) and integrated e-portfolio

These resources guide individuals through a PDP process including a review of their current competencies and the organisational context in which they operate and provides them with a framework and a range of tools to plan their next steps in their professional development. The resources include 360бу appraisal and training planning tools that can be customised to fit with different organisational approaches to employee development.

Basic and specialist science modules

The 3-year part-time course will comprise of 120 credits at Level 4 (Certificate level) and 120 credits at Level 5 (Intermediate Level).  Each year consists of modules that carry a specific number of credits.  One credit corresponds to approximately 10 hours of learning time.  To be eligible for the Foundation Degree award students must obtain 240 credits of which 90 credits must be at Level 5.

Level 4 Basic Science and Business modules include:

Cell Biology (15 credits)
Biochemistry (15 credits)
Microbiology (15 credits)
Applied Chemistry (15 credits)
Human Physiology and Disease (15 credits)
Metabolism and Enzymology (15 credits)
Business Improvement (15 credits)
Level 5 Specialist Science and Business modules include:

Infection and Immunity (15 credits)
Applied Microbiology (15 credits)
Genetics (15 credits)
Advanced Cell Biology (15 credits)
Pharmacology (15 credits)
GxP (15 credits)
Technology Transfer (15 credits)
Content for these modules will be delivered online, drawing on industry expertise through case studies, webinars, and focus on enhancing learners application of knowledge and skills in the workplace.

Technical skills

These are technical skills identified by employers as core to the competence of individuals working in the bioscience sector. Recognising the existence of company in-house training schemes learners will be able to evidence these technical skills through accreditation of in-house training and achievement through day-to-day activities in the workplace. In this way learners will be able to select particular technical skills they wish to enhance and/or develop to meet employer need.

In Year 1, the Basic Laboratory Practice summer-school module (15 credits) includes health & safety, fundamental practical skills, scientific method, standard workflow, GLP and GMP, problem solving skill development, mathematical calculations and statistics in planning and analysis of experiments.

In Year 2, the Advanced Laboratory Practice summer-school module (15 credits) includes concentration/accuracy, pH, colorimetric, spectrophotometry, flame photometry, chromatography, sample preparation and downstream processing techniques. There will also be a focus on increasing complexity of experimental design and analysis: preparation, maintenance and storage of animal and plant cell cultures (attached and suspended) and specimen preparation working to industry standards; microscopy; immunological techniques including immunocytochemistry and ELISA, project management and resource management.

To a certain degree the technical skills framework is flexible allowing delivery to be adapted to suit the needs of the organization and the learner.

Workplace project

These learning materials specifically support the development and delivery of workplace projects (45 credits) aligned to the business needs of the organisation. Materials will support learners through all of the stages of a project lifecycle (initiation, planning, execution, monitoring and control and evaluation). Project planning tools are also offered so that a learner can build their project plan as they progress.

Opportunities exist for collaborative research projects between Medway School of Pharmacy and the organization; to be conducted at the School and/or place of work.