Overview


Studying Mathematics at postgraduate level gives you a chance to begin your own research, develop your own creativity and be part of a long tradition of people investigating analytic, geometric and algebraic ideas. 

You would be joining a vibrant research community of almost 100 postgraduate and postdoctoral researchers and academic staff. You have the opportunity to engage with a very wide range of research topics within a well-established system of support and training, with a high level of contact between staff and research students.

A very active research seminar programme further enhances the Mathematics research experience.

About the School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science (SMSAS)

The School has a strong reputation for world-class research as indicated by our results in the latest Research Assessment Exercise (RAE). Postgraduate students develop analytical, communication and research skills. Developing computational skills and applying them to mathematical problems forms a significant part of the postgraduate training in the School.

The Mathematics Group at Kent ranked highly in the most recent RAE. With 100% of the Applied Mathematics Group submitted, all research outputs were judged to be of international quality and 12.5% was rated 4*. For the Pure Mathematics Group, a large proportion of the outputs demonstrated international excellence.

The Mathematics Group also has an excellent track record of winning research grants from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC), the Royal Society, the EU, the London Mathematical Society and the Leverhulme Trust.


 
  National ratings

  In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014, research by the School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science was ranked 25th in the UK for research power and 100% or our research was judged to be of international quality.

An impressive 92% of our research-active staff submitted to the REF and the School&rsquo;s environment was judged to be conducive to supporting the development of world-leading research.
 


 
  
   Contact us or order a prospectus 