Overview


Our taught and research programmes are exciting and innovative, offering you the opportunity to mix with composers, sound designers, film-makers, technologists, ethnomusicologists, theorists, visual artists and curators. 

During your time with us, you become part of our specialist community, exchanging ideas and developing your own creative and intellectual interests, informed by expert academic staff within the School of Music and Fine Art.

Individual staff research interests cover a wide range of aspects of music composition, performance, ethnomusicology and music technology, and supervision is available in all of these areas. For these programmes, you have regular meetings with your supervisor as well as tuition in research methodologies in the early stages of your research. Additionally, we regularly invite academic and professional specialists for guest lectures, workshops and special events relevant to students&rsquo; research.

About the School of Music and Fine Art

We are situated on the Medway campus of the University of Kent and our facilities include purpose-built recording studios, post-production rooms, rehearsal spaces, workstations and seminar rooms. We have a professionally designed 5.1 recording and compositional space and a spatial audio studio. In addition, we have a multi-loudspeaker sound diffusion system for the performance of sonic art and live electronics.

The School is also home to the Sound-Image-Space Research Centre which promotes practice-led research underpinned by theory and scholarship within the broad domain of image, sound and the spatial arts. The focus is on new collaborative relationships that generate research outputs through multiple modalities; these include the production of new creative work, performance, publication, and exhibition and curation.

Our students explore both the creative and technical aspects of music and its related technologies and also have the opportunity to work collaboratively with practitioners from other arts subjects.


 
  National ratings

  In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014, Arts at Kent was ranked 1st for research power and in the top 20 in the UK for research quality.

An impressive 98% of our research was judged to be of international quality. The School&rsquo;s environment was judged to be conducive to supporting the development of world-leading research.
 


 
  
   Contact us or order a prospectus 