Overview


As the study of fundamental questions connected to reality, existence, the mind, language and thought, Philosophy at Kent is designed to develop your ideas, independent thought and problem-solving skills.

A PhD in Philosophy enables you to undertake a substantial piece of supervised research in the subject that makes an original contribution to knowledge and is worthy of publication.

A PhD, also known as a doctorate, is a requirement for a career as an academic or researcher. In addition, it has become a qualification valued by many employers who recognise the skills and commitment a PhD requires. Employers also recognise that a PhD?indicates excellent research capabilities, discipline and communication skills.?

Over the duration of the PhD, you produce an original piece of research of up to 100,000 words. Recent research theses have included &lsquo;Evolutionary Ethics Without the Error: How Care Ethics Can Vindicate Moral Realism&rsquo;, &lsquo;Morality as Ideology: Marx, Materialism and Ideology-Critique&rsquo;, &lsquo;Causality in Complex Systems:   An Inferentialist Proposal&rsquo;, &lsquo;Moral Epistemology, Particularism and Generalism&rsquo;, &lsquo;Intelligence, Relevance, Action and Perception&rsquo;, &lsquo;The Story of My Life: Virtue, Character and Narrative&rsquo;, &lsquo;Reasoning, Objectivity and Interdisciplinarity:   Making the Links&rsquo;, and &lsquo;Vulnerability in Bioethics: Humans and Animals&rsquo;.

The Department of Philosophy
 offers supervision from world-class academics with expertise in a wide range of disciplines, able to support and guide you through your research. Your progress is carefully monitored to ensure that you are on track to produce a thesis valued by the academic community. Throughout your programme, you are able to attend and contribute to research seminars, workshops, and research and transferable skills training courses.

  


 
  National ratings

  In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014, philosophy was ranked 12th for research impact in the UK. We were also ranked 16th for research intensity and in the top 20 for research power.

An impressive 100% of our research-active staff submitted to the REF and 97% of our research was judged to be of international quality. The School&rsquo;s environment was judged to be conducive to supporting the development of world-leading research.
 


 
  
   Contact us or order a prospectus 