Overview


Psychology at Kent offers a supportive, dynamic and diverse environment for creative research and learning.

During your research, you are  supported by a  panel including a main and secondary supervisor. Your supervisors are individually  selected for you  based on their  compatibility with your research interests. Typically, you meet with your  supervisors more frequently at the initial stages of research than during the phases of data collection and analysis.

You receive training in research-specific and broader &lsquo;transferable&rsquo; skills,  including academic writing, career management and presentation skills. You also have the opportunity to train for an advanced teaching qualification (ATAP). The  Advanced Statistics and Methodology module from our taught MSc programme is available for doctoral students  that  have not already completed an advanced statistics and methods course.

During term-time, our  research groups hold weekly meetings to discuss ongoing work, and  weekly seminars also take place  featuring external speakers. Numerous data analysis and research methods workshops are available (recent examples include  structural equation modelling; hierarchical linear modelling; meta-analysis; EPrime experimental software), as well as  individual training opportunities.

The School of Psychology

Kent's School of Psychology supports  research in a number of areas, including: social psychology; developmental psychology; forensic psychology; cognitive psychology; existential psychology; personality and motivation.

We conduct both basic and applied research in several areas, and we are highly regarded as a leading European centre for postgraduate research. We have a long-established international reputation in social psychology, and this is complemented by our strengths in cognitive, developmental and forensic psychology. The School attracts excellent visiting scholars and postgraduate students from both within the UK and overseas.

PhD funding

Some of our PhD students are self-funded, and others are funded by grants or awards either from the School, UK or their countries of origin. You may also fund your studies through part-time teaching within the School.

All our taught Master&rsquo;s (MSc) programmes have been recognised by the UK Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) as meeting the nationally recognised criteria for preparation training for PhD research. The School has a strong track record of attracting ESRC research studentship funding, which involves partnerships with external organisations such as Age Concern England and the Equality and Human Rights Commission and collaborative studentships with partners such as People United.


 
  National ratings

  In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014, research by the School of Psychology was ranked 11th in the UK for research intensity.

An impressive 95% of our research-active staff submitted to the REF and 97% of our research was judged to be of international quality. The School&rsquo;s environment was judged to be conducive to supporting the development of world-leading research.
 


 
  
   Contact us or order a prospectus 