Course structure


 The MSc has been developed by the School of Biosciences, a leading school in teaching, research and science communication, and the School of History, which has a dedicated research centre in the History of the Sciences. It integrates current theory and practice in communicating science with insights from historical and ethical perspectives. Two core modules have a case study-driven approach to science communication, learning from key scientific moments in history and from science communicators who work in a variety of different professions (eg, media, politics, education, journalism).

Two optional modules allow you to specialise in a particular area relevant to science communication, based on your interests and experience, focusing on either practical/scientific or humanities-based approaches to the study of science communication. An extended research project allows you to take a practical approach to science communication, or to do in-depth research on a historical or contemporary episode in science.

In some cases, these projects may be undertaken in conjunction with external partners, such as Research Councils, charities and NGOs.

You can opt to take only the core modules, resulting in a postgraduate certificate, or to take the compulsory plus two optional modules, leading to a postgraduate diploma.




 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

      
   BI830 - Science at Work


   
    SummaryScience has a profound influence on professional practice in the private and public sector. This module considers the ways in which different professions interact with science and scientists, and how this influences the work they do. Their interaction with the public will also be discussed. A series of  speakers with diverse professional backgrounds (education, industry, government, policy making, the law, the media) will describe their work, the role of science in the profession, and the way in which science influences their actions and interactions with the public and other professions. This will relate to scientific content in a range of scientific contents, including cancer, reproductive medicine, biotechnology and healthcare.  This will be illustrated by case studies presenting challenges and dilemmas concerning the communication of science in the context of different professions and their target audiences.Themes and Topics The nature of public understanding and public engagement The current science communication landscape: existing schemes, government priorities, charitable organisations Review of recent surveys on public attitudes to science, scientists attitudes to communication, and related studies in the public domain Analysis of published science communication activities targeting different audiences  Analysis of evaluation strategies from surveys of the published literature Case studies of science communication from practitioners in different professions: TV, science writing, media relations, politics, lobbying


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   BI835 - Science Communication and Society Project


   
    A synopsis of the curriculumFor dissertation projects:Following discussion with their supervisors, students will generate their own title for a dissertation. Preparation of the dissertation is described below.For practical projects:This extended project will be particularly suited to students who have entered the programme with a first degree in the sciences. The project will involve the development of an extensive package, using appropriate media to communicate scientific principles, which can subsequently be used by appropriate non-specialist audiences. As part of the project, students must research their chosen audience to ascertain their needs in terms of communicating science. The project must be informed by a period of in-depth research on the scientific topic and preparation of a dissertation. Having developed a suitable package of activities, students will then develop evaluation methods to monitor their project work, and apply these methods to evaluate effectiveness. Interpretation of evaluation data  will be undertaken during the final stages of the project.


    Credits: 60 credits
     (30 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   HI866 - History of Science and Communication


   
    There is no better way to understand how scientific knowledge is made and consumed today than to look at how this happened in the past.  Our examples come from 400 years ago up to the present day, and highlight how changes in the media of knowledge have shaped our understanding of science  printing presses, public lectures, museums and TV. How have audience needs and interests changed during this time, and how has the medium affected the message?  Themes and Topics The printing press and the scientific revolution Cabinets of curiosity: the first museums? Science on display in the 18th century Science and the steam-driven press in the 19th century Science and film in the 20th century Science wars and the public understanding of science in the late 20th century


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

 
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Continuous assessment throughout the year is diverse, innovative and context-driven, from short pieces of writing to longer essays, and from the development and evaluation of science communication activities to mock professional reports and grant applications. The aim of each assessment is not only to monitor understanding, but also to integrate information across modules and give you practical experience in a range of transferable skills for future employability.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   This programme aims to:

 equip you to communicate science effectively in a variety of media
 enable you to understand the social and professional processes by which scientific knowledge is made and communicated
 give you an understanding of the process of scientific investigation
 provide a stimulating, research-active environment for teaching and learning in which you are supported and motivated to achieve your academic and personal potential
 facilitate a learning experience (integration and application of knowledge) through a variety of teaching and assessment methods
 give you the experience of undertaking an independent research project or dissertation
 prepare you for further training and employment in science and non-science based careers by developing transferable and cognitive skills
 develop the qualities needed for employment in situations requiring the exercise of professionalism, independent thought, personal responsibility and decision-making in complex and unpredictable circumstances
 provide access to as wide a range of students as practicable.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You will gain knowledge and understanding of:

 significant episodes in the history of science, technology and medicine, from the scientific revolution to the present
 the social and cultural mechanisms that have shaped and shape the production of scientific knowledge
 the role of communicational media in propagating and shaping scientific knowledge
 scholarly debates surrounding the philosophy of the public understanding of science
 ethical context of the practice of science and its communication
 the principles and theories of public engagement from a critical perspective
 current theoretical perspectives on how to communicate science to the public
 the impact of science upon a range of professional disciplines
 how different professions deal with complex scientific information and disseminate this information to their clients and/or audiences
 career opportunities in science communication
 the social, political and economic impact of science
 how research leads to knowledge.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in:

 how to understand the range and scope of teaching and assessment methods and study skills relevant to the programme
 gather, organise and deploy evidence, data and information from a variety of secondary and primary sources
 the ability to identify, investigate and analyse primary and secondary information
 how to differentiate between arguments
 how to present reasoned defensible arguments based on reflection, study and critical judgement
 how to understand the needs of different modes of communication for different audiences
 engagement in effective and intelligent discussion with people of varied training and perspectives
 development of intellectual capacity and skills spanning humanities, sciences and social sciences.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 how to develop critical faculties to deconstruct and interpret aspects of scientific culture.
 an awareness of the various techniques and processes used in the production of scientific knowledge, whether for expert or lay audiences
 an understanding of the nature of science and its socio-cultural role, past and present
 how to find information on science communication and the history of science from a wide range of information sources (eg journals, books, electronic databases) and maintain an effective information retrieval strategy
 an understanding and application of scholarly methods and concepts used in the critical study of science, technology and medicine.

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You will gain the following transferable skills:

 the ability to reflect on, and manage, your own learning and seek to make use of constructive feedback from your peers and staff to enhance your own performance and personal skills
 independence of mind and initiative
 self-discipline and self-motivation
 the ability to work in a team and have respect for others&rsquo; reasoned views
 communication: the ability to organise information clearly, create and respond to textual and visual sources (eg images, graphs, tables), present information orally, adapt style for different audiences
 numeracy: the ability to read graphs and tables, integrate numerical and non-numerical information, understand the limits and potentialities of medical, scientific, legal and ethical disciplines
 information technology: the ability to evaluate critically and communicate effectively in a number of the following formats: written documents, email, databases, spreadsheets, PowerPoint, web sites, social networking media. 