Course structure


 Accreditation of Prior Learning and Prior Experiential Learning may be possible on this programme. You can transfer between this programme and other programmes offered by Tizard and also between levels, subject to meeting admission requirements.

Coursework is taught through a mixture of web-based resources, directed reading, videos, lectures, seminars and practical sessions, supported by a number of workshops, where you work with skilled professionals and have the opportunity to share ideas and experiences with fellow students.




 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

      
   TZ861 - Social Psychology of Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities


   
    All academic modules are taught using a combination of web-based resources, reading, the introductory workshop and a one-week workshop in the Spring. For each module, there will be web-based materials including video-recorded lectures, web-based discussions/seminars, and quizzes/group exercises. Students are also expected to conduct their own literature searches and follow-up the core reading and the reference lists for each topic coveredThe aim of this module is to teach the basic facts about the nature and origins of intellectual and developmental disabilities, including definitions of learning disability, epidemiology, biological, social and environmental causes of learning disability. In addition, characteristics of people with intellectual and developmental disabilities will be considered (including cognitive and social characteristics) along with issues such as autism, ageing, transition, early intervention, physical & mental health, parenting, sexuality and people with intellectual and developmental disability in the criminal justice system.


    Credits: 10 credits
     (5 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   TZ862 - Behaviour Analysis and Intervention


   
     The aim of this module is to teach the principles of applied behaviour analysis, behavioural assessment, functional analysis and cognitive and behavioural intervention techniques.


    Credits: 10 credits
     (5 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   TZ863 - Service issues in Intellectual and Development Disabilities


   
    The aim of this module is to give students an understanding of organisational issues involved in learning disability services, including institutionalisation and deinstitutionalisation, theories of normalisation and criticisms of these theories, methods of analysing quality of life and care and ways of producing change in services. This module is taught as a web-based guided study module with seminars at several points in the first term. For AIIDD students, this module is closely linked to the service placement and discussion and application of web-based units will occur during placement supervision.


    Credits: 10 credits
     (5 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   TZ865 - Extended Essay


   
    All students will write one 6000 word essay on a topic which requires them to draw on material from the service issues, social psychology and behavioural analysis and intervention modules. This will be done over the course of the year for full time students and in the second year for part time students and will be submitted during the third term of the final year. 


    Credits: 15 credits
     (7.5 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   TZ830 - Research Methods


   
    The aim of this module is to teach students about research methodology and the knowledge needed to access and interpret the research literature. For those who take the statistical analysis element, the aim is also to teach appropriate statistical techniques for the analysis of quantitative data. The emphasis will be on methods of data collection and analysis which will be useful in practice settings, so that advanced multivariate techniques will not be taught.


    Credits: 15 credits
     (7.5 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   TZ995 - Extended Research Project in Intellectual andDevelopment Disabilities


   
    During the first term of the course students will develop ideas for their research project and will be given the opportunity to choose a research project proposed and supervised by members of the course team or other Tizard staff (see Appendix 4 of course handbook for the list of topics for the current year). Students who choose to design their own project will be allocated a dissertation supervisor. Students following the MSc in Analysis and Intervention in Intellectual and Developmental Disability are required to do an empirical dissertation. All other students can choose between either an empirical or a non-empirical (e.g. policy or research review) dissertation. Students develop a proposal (assessed) for their research project with advice from their supervisor and apply for ethical approval either to the Tizard Ethics Committee (Ethical Review Checklist available on web-based resources) or to another ethics committee such as those in the NHS. 


    Credits: 120 credits
     (60 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

 
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Each of the four taught modules is assessed by a one-hour, web-based, multiple-choice exam and an extended essay. In addition, the Research Methods module involves short assignments and a worked problem. Placements are assessed by two 2,000-word service reports and one 4,000-word case report, plus feedback by placement supervisors.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   This programme aims to:

 provide you with detailed knowledge of intellectual and developmental disabilities and knowledge of how to conduct and interpret research in this field (PCert only)
 provide you with detailed knowledge of intellectual and developmental disabilities and knowledge of how to conduct research in this field (MA, PDip only).

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You will gain knowledge and understanding of:

 definitions and epidemiology of intellectual disability
 cognitive, communicative and social characteristics of people with intellectual disabilities
 biological, social and environmental causes of intellectual disability
 behaviour analysis
 challenging behaviour and other special needs
 ideology, policy and service development
 definition and measurement of service quality
 relationships between service organisation and quality
 research methodology.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in:

 the ability to present critical, balanced arguments
 the ability to appraise and interpret evidence from academic literature and personal/work experience (PCert only)
 the ability to appraise and interpret evidence from academic literature, personal/work experience and data collection (PDip, MA only).

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 how to conduct applied research on a topic relevant to an intellectual and developmental disability topic. (PDip, MA only)

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You will gain the following transferable skills:

 communication:
 
  the ability to organise information clearly and respond to written sources (PCert only)
  the ability to organise information clearly, respond to written sources, present information orally (PDip, MA only)
 
 
 numeracy:
 
  the ability to make sense of statistical materials, integrate numerical and non-numerical information (MA only);
  the ability to make sense of statistical materials, quantitative and qualitative information (PDip only);
  if you are doing the statistical element of research methods module, you will make sense of statistical materials, integrate quantitative and qualitative information. You will also become familiar with ways of summarising and presenting data (PCert only)
 
 
 information technology: the ability to produce written documents and undertake online research
 working with others: work co-operatively on group tasks and understand how groups function
 improve your own learning: the ability to explore your strengths and weaknesses, time management skills and review your working environment
 problem-solving: the ability to identify and define complex problems, explore alternative solutions and discriminate between them. 