Course structure


 The MSc in Reproductive Medicine involves studying for 125 credits of taught modules, as indicated below. The taught component takes place during the autumn and spring terms, while a 60-credit research project take place over the summer months.

In addition to traditional scientific laboratory reports, experience is gained in a range of scientific writing styles relevant to future employment, such as literature reviews, patent applications, regulatory documents, and patient information suitable for a non-scientific readership.




 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

      
   BI830 - Science at Work


   
    SummaryScience has a profound influence on professional practice in the private and public sector. This module considers the ways in which different professions interact with science and scientists, and how this influences the work they do. Their interaction with the public will also be discussed. A series of  speakers with diverse professional backgrounds (education, industry, government, policy making, the law, the media) will describe their work, the role of science in the profession, and the way in which science influences their actions and interactions with the public and other professions. This will relate to scientific content in a range of scientific contents, including cancer, reproductive medicine, biotechnology and healthcare.  This will be illustrated by case studies presenting challenges and dilemmas concerning the communication of science in the context of different professions and their target audiences.Themes and Topics The nature of public understanding and public engagement The current science communication landscape: existing schemes, government priorities, charitable organisations Review of recent surveys on public attitudes to science, scientists attitudes to communication, and related studies in the public domain Analysis of published science communication activities targeting different audiences  Analysis of evaluation strategies from surveys of the published literature Case studies of science communication from practitioners in different professions: TV, science writing, media relations, politics, lobbying


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   BI841 - The Science of Reproductive Medicine


   
    The practice of reproductive medicine is underpinned by a scientific basis stretching back hundreds of years.  New discoveries are being put into medical practice on a regular basis and reproductive medicine research is well known for its translational element.  This module will explore the fundamentals of reproductive medicine, Obstetrics, Gynaecology, Urology, Andrology, Managing abnormal pregnancies and pre-term birth, Infectious diseases affecting reproduction, Sex determination, reproductive endocrinology, cancer and fertility, causes of infertility and Genetics. This module will be science-based, informed and led by the scientific and medical literature and modern discoveries. Specifically: What is reproductive medicine? (Darren Griffin) Obstetrics, Gynaecology and Urology (Laurence Shaw) The science of Andrology (Sheryl Homa) Managing abnormal pregnancy and premature birth (Vimal Vasu) Infectious disease and reproductive medicine (Gary Robinson) Sex determination (Peter Goodfellow) Endocrinology and Reproduction (Michael Sumners) Cancer and Reproduction (Bill Gullick/ Dan Lloyd) The causes of infertility (Darren Griffin)  Infertility and Genetics (Darren Griffin) Genetics and Pregnancy (Darren Griffin)


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   BI842 - The IVF World


   
    Around 1-2% of all babies in the UK are born by IVF, with varying figures in many other countries. Internationally, reproductive medicine generally, and IVF in particular, is an area in which the UK is world-leading. This module will explore the many aspects of practical IVF (including ICSI, and PGD) and the factors that affect it.  A feature of the module will be the presentation of similar issues from different perspectives e.g. that of the clinician, the counsellor and the laboratory manager. A career as a scientist in reproductive medicine (e.g. clinical embryologist) is a popular path. Although the proposed module does not aim to address the specific goal of training prospective clinical embryologists in how to perform their operational tasks (such training is provided in-house in a highly regulated clinical environment and leads to a vocational qualification), this module will give students a realistic expectation of the likelihood of them excelling in, and enjoying this popular career path. This module will thus explore the basics of lab technique and good practice, pipette making, egg collection and in-vitro maturation, sperm assessment, insemination, ICSI, embryo grading, assisted hatching, spreading and preimplantation diagnosis.  For obvious reasons embryos from non-human model species (e.g. mouse, bovine, pig) will be used. Specifically: Referral categories for IVF (Laurence Shaw) The IVF laboratory (Alan Thornhill) IVF and ICSI (Alan Thornhill) Preimplantation Diagnosis and Screening  Careers in reproductive medicine (Darren Griffin, Alan Thornhill) Practical course (Darren Griffin, Alan Thornhill)


    Credits: 15 credits
     (7.5 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   BI846 - Practical Skills in Molecular Biology for Reproductive Scientists


   
    The module aims to develop understanding and practical skills in molecular biology, based around practical lab work, interactive seminars and complementary course work. The module will involve conducting a typical molecular biological lab project including the amplification, cloning and bacterial expression of a eukaryotic gene and characterisation of the resulting purified protein. The experimental work will be accompanied by interactive workshops and classes that review the theory of these techniques, and that will introduce complementary approaches not used in the lab. Students will learn skills in experimental design reviewing and discussing case studies relevant to their degree topic. They will also gain experience in analysis and statistical interpretation of complex experimental data.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   BI847 - Reproductive Medicine Project/Dissertation


   
    The Reproductive Medicine Masters Project is the culmination of the MSc programme, and students are expected to apply the knowledge they have gained from individual modules to examine an appropriate issue in depth. We offer two types of project. The dissertation project will consist of an extended essay (typically 15-20,000 words) and you will be registered on a Biosciences module (BI847). We also offer a practical project (tutor: Prof Darren Griffin), based in a research laboratory. The project will take place during the Summer Term and during the Summer University Vacation. Each student will be supervised by a member of academic staff in either the School of Biosciences. Your supervisor will discuss your research and approach with you. Students will undertake an independent research project that will be designed by the student, in consultation with an academic supervisor, to address specific research questions related to reproductive medicine. All available projects will be scrutinised by the Course Director to ensure they are relevant and congruent with the programme and module learning outcomes as they relate to Reproductive Medicine.  Students will be trained in key techniques relating to the project, and will work independently under the supervisors guidance to design and execute experiments that will address the questions formulated earlier. The students will spend approximately 16 weeks in the laboratory and with then write up their findings in the style of a scientific report for publication in a high impact factor scientific journal. They will present a poster and an oral presentation in research symposia arranged by the School.


    Credits: 60 credits
     (30 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   LW867 - Reproduction and the Beginnings of Life


   
    This module aims to explore legal and ethical issues in medicine relating to human reproduction and the beginning of life.Topics Covered the moral status of the embryo/foetus abortion the regulation of pregnancy, including liability for antenatal harm childbirth human fertilization and embryology, including embryo research, cloning, human admixed embryos (animal/human 'hybrids'), artificial gametes etc the 'designer baby' debates and selecting the characteristics of future children via pre-implantation genetic diagnosis (including sex selection, selecting for/against disability, saviour siblings). surrogacy


    Credits: 20 credits
     (10 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

 
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Assessment is by coursework and dissertation/project.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   This programme aims to:

 provide you with an academic framework to underpin a career in any area of reproductive medicine
 enable you to understand the social and professional processes by which reproductive medicine operates at a scientific, medical, social, ethical and legal level
 give you an understanding of the process of academic investigation in a range of academic disciplines relevant to reproductive medicine
 provide a stimulating, research-active environment for teaching and learning in which you are supported and motivated to achieve your academic and personal potential
 facilitate a valuable learning experience through a variety of teaching and assessment methods that will promote the assimilation, comprehension, analysis application, synthesis and evaluation of the knowledge base
 give you the experience of undertaking an independent research project or dissertation
 prepare you for further training and employment both in science and non-science based careers by developing transferable and cognitive skills
 develop the qualities needed for employment in situations requiring the exercise of professionalism, independent thought, personal responsibility and decision-making in complex and unpredictable circumstances.
 provide access to as wide a range of students as practicable.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You will gain knowledge and understanding of:

 the scientific basis of reproductive medicine including aspects of developmental biology, infection, genetics, physiology, biochemistry and molecular biology
 the medical basis of reproductive medicine including the clinical decision making process that affects patients
 the workings of clinics and scientific laboratories that routinely practice reproductive medicine
 the social, ethical and legal mechanisms that have influenced (and continue to influence) the acquisition of scientific knowledge in the field of reproductive medicine
 the ethical context of the practice of reproductive medicine and scholarly debates surrounding it
 mechanisms by which different professions in reproductive medicine deal with complex scientific information and disseminate this information to their patients and/or audiences
 the social, political and economic impact of reproductive medicine
 the processes though which research leads to knowledge and ultimately clinical practice.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in:

 the ability to investigate and collate information from the medical, scientific and social science literature, then analyse and synthesise it to address particular issues pertaining to reproductive medicine
 the ability to understand the range and scope of teaching and assessment methods and study skills relevant to the various academic disciplines that encompass reproductive medicine
 the ability to differentiate between points of view that lead to different lines of investigation and contribute to reproductive medicine
 the ability to present reasoned medical, scientific, legal and ethical arguments based on reflection, study and critical judgement.
 the ability to understand the needs for different modes of communication to different audiences including patients, clinicians, academics and the public
 the ability to engage in effective and intelligent discussion with people of varied training and perspectives
 an intellectual capacity and skill set that spans the disciplines of medicine, science and social sciences.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 the critical faculties involved in searching and reviewing the scientific literature
 an awareness of the various techniques and processes used in the production of scientific knowledge
 basic practical competence in skills relevant to an IVF laboratory
 an ability to source and deconstruct legal arguments
 to find information on science communication from a wide range of information sources (eg journals, books, electronic databases) and maintain an effective information retrieval strategy
 an understanding and application of scholarly methods and concepts used in the critical study of science, technology and medicine
 an understanding of the role of the clinician in reproductive medicine and factors affecting the decision-making processes that lead to patient management.

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You will gain the following transferable skills:

 the ability to reflect on, and manage your own learning and seek to make use of constructive feedback from your peers and staff to enhance your own performance and personal skills
 independence of mind and initiative
 self-discipline and self-motivation
 the ability to work in a team and have respect for others&rsquo; reasoned views
 communication: the ability to organise information clearly, create and respond to textual and visual sources (eg images, graphs, tables), present information orally, adapt your style for different audiences
 numeracy: the ability to read graphs and tables, integrate numerical and non-numerical information, understand the limits and potentialities of medical, scientific, legal and ethical disciplines
 information technology: the ability to evaluate critically and communicate effectively in a number of the following formats: written documents, email, databases, spreadsheets, PowerPoint, web sites, social networking media. 