Course structure


 The programme comprises three main interweaving strands:

 themes and major figures in European literature
 interactions between European national literatures, as reflected in important genres such as autobiography and the fantastic
 comparative literature in theory and practice, with an emphasis on the history of the discipline and ways of reading literature comparatively.


These complementary strands encourage comparative analysis in a variety of contexts: national literatures, genres, media and theory.




 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

      
   CP805 - European Modernism: Sexual and Textual Deviance


   
    This module investigates modernism as a cross-cultural and interdisciplinary phenomenon via close readings of a selection of literary and essayistic texts written in the early decades of the 20th century by a range of key European authors. After an exploration of the socio-cultural and historical contexts from which these texts emerge, we study the specificities of modernist literature by paying close attention to the formal and stylistic innovations which accompany typically modernist thematic preoccupations, such as deviant sexuality, the workings of the unconscious, self-reflexive thematizations of the specificities of the medium, new technological developments, the city, time, decay and a sense of metaphysical despair. Stylistic techniques such as multi-perspectivity, free indirect discourse, stream-of-consciousness, montage and fragmentation are explored not just as tools for rendering a dramatically altered conception of experience, but as formal expressions of the plight of the peripatetic modernist subject in their own right.The course will be taught in English. Relevant texts may be studied in English translation, but students with proficiency in European languages are encouraged to read texts in the original language.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   CP808 - Writing the Self: Autobiography in the Modern Period


   
    The notion of autobiography as a documentary genre, in which the writer unproblematically records the facts of his or her life, has been called into question by modern critical studies of the genre, many of the most important theorists of autobiographical writing insisting upon its central place in the literary canon, alongside plays, novels, and poems, with which it would share a certain literariness. Focusing on a wide range of modern autobiographical texts from different national and linguistic cultures, this module will treat questions of generic definition, form, motivation, and rhetorical strategy. Among the specific questions to be considered are: Can autobiography be strictly defined? How does autobiography relate to other literary genres such as the diary or the first-person novel? Is autobiography a particular kind of narrative? Is there an identifiable rhetoric of autobiography? Is sincerity a meaningful criterion when considering autobiography? What kinds of relationship do autobiographers attempt to establish with their readers? We shall also consider some of the recurring themes in autobiographical writing since the Romantic period, including the representation of childhood, the family, sexuality, gender, ethics, mortality, and politics.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   CP810 - Comparative Literature in Theory and Practice


   
    This module is designed to familiarize students with the history of Comparative Literature as an academic discipline, to develop their ability to analyse critically the major conceptions of Comparative Literature that have emerged over the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, and to enable them to apply theories of Comparative Literature in the analysis of literary movements, literary genres, literary topoi (such as the fallen woman), and literary figures who recur at different moments in literary history (such as Odysseus, Oedipus, Antigone, and Faust). Students will begin by studying a range of major conceptions of Comparative Literature, and will consider the implications for the discipline of Comparative Literature of theories of globalization, multiculturalism, translation studies, and world literature. They will then proceed to analyse selected literary works within the framework of these conceptions of Comparative Literature. The module will therefore combine a theoretical with a practical literary-critical dimension, encouraging close reading and an appreciation of historical context in the analysis of theoretical and literary texts.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   CP813 - Literature and Medicine


   
    This module is designed to introduce students to major works of modern fiction which address medical issues, whether these are foregrounded or incidental. The first part of the module will explore the rise of clinical, observational medicine in nineteenth-century France. The second part will examine literary representations of physical and cognitive disability in a body of twentieth- and twenty-first-century literature spanning several continents. The module will encourage students to reflect on the interface between medical and literary writing, and to contextualize these complex intersections in the scientific and medical writings of a specific period. It will also examine important medical issues such as pharmaceutical practice, mechanical orthopaedic cures, modern hospitalization, life-saving operations, and the role of medical staff in the physiological and psychological recovery of a terminally ill patient.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   CP998 - Comparative Literature Dissertation


   
    The topic of the dissertation will usually be based on, and develop from, work undertaken on one or more of the four coursework modules undertaken in the course of the MA. The dissertation must be comparative in nature, including an analysis of more than one work, from more than one national/linguistic tradition.


    Credits: 60 credits
     (30 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

 
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Assessment is by one 5,000-word essay for each module, and the dissertation.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   This programme aims to:

 provide you with the knowledge and skills to prepare you for the academic study of comparative literature at MPhil/PhD level
 attract outstanding students, irrespective of race, background, gender, or physical disability from within the UK
 further the University&rsquo;s International Strategy by attracting graduate students from abroad as well as from the UK
 enable you to begin to specialise in your areas of interest
 enable you to hone your ability to read literature and literary theory critically and comparatively
 provide you, consistent with point one above, with a transition from undergraduate study to independent research
 provide you with a training that will culminate, if followed through to PhD level, in the ability to submit articles to refereed journals in comparative literature.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You gain knowledge and understanding of:

 several key periods in modern European literature, based on a critical study of the relevant literature and literary theory
 the applicable techniques for research and advanced academic enquiry in comparative literature, in particular through an engagement with questions of genre, the concept of literary movements, literary theory, and literature&rsquo;s relation to other discourses (including psychoanalysis and philosophy)
 the ability to conceptualise, design and implement the final project (dissertation).

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in:

 listening attentively to complex presentations, using your powers of analysis and imagination
 reading carefully a variety of technical and non-technical material
 using libraries effectively
 reflecting clearly and critically on oral and written sources
 marshalling a complex body of texts
 remembering relevant material and bringing it to mind when needed
 constructing cogent arguments in the evaluation of this material.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 the ability to understand and analyse complex literary and theoretical material
 the ability to read literature in a comparative context
 the ability to differentiate between the formal implications of differing genres (ie poetry, prose, drama, photography, painting, and film) and to respond to the differing problems of these genres and media
 the ability to situate literary and theoretical texts in their socio-historical context.

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You gain the following transferable skills:

 working with others: participating in seminar discussions, responding to the views of others and to criticisms of your own views without giving or taking offence, engaging in independent group work, including the running of the graduate seminar
 language skills: discussing complex material in English and (where possible) in the language(s) of original composition
 communication: producing focused and cogent written work, giving oral presentations, using visual aids where appropriate
 problem-solving: identifying problems, assessing the strengths and weaknesses of different solutions, defending your own solutions with cogent arguments
 improving your learning: identifying your strengths and weaknesses, assessing the quality of your own work, managing your time and meeting deadlines, learning to work independently
 using information technology: using online information sources, word-processing essays, using email for receiving and responding to communications. 