Overview


Research in Sociology at Kent covers a range of areas, including social and critical theory, social movements, globalisation and everyday life, cities and space, media and technology, class, &lsquo;race&rsquo; and ethnicity, gender, work, visual sociology, the welfare state, risk and society, violence, NGOs and organisations, and social aspects of the body. We offer high-quality supervision across a wide range of areas and we work carefully to match you with a supervisor who suits your interests and ambitions.

In addition to regular meetings with individual supervisors, all research students take part in a research training programme.

There are further details on the research activities and publications of individual members of staff and the School&rsquo;s research units on the School&rsquo;s website
.

About the School of Social Policy, Sociology and Social Research (SSPSSR)

It has a long and distinguished history and is one of the largest and most successful social science research communities in Europe. It has received top ratings in Research Assessment Exercises, and most recently had 70% of its work judged as either &lsquo;world-leading&rsquo; or &lsquo;internationally excellent&rdquo; in terms of its &ldquo;originality, significance and rigour&rdquo;.

The School supports a large and thriving postgraduate community, and in 2010 distributed to new students in excess of &pound;100,000 in Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) quota awards, University and SSPSSR bursaries and scholarships.

Our faculty staff are world authorities in their fields. Members attract large research grants from bodies such as the ESRC, the British Academy, Arts and Humanities Research Council, European Commission, Anglo-German Foundation, NATO, Equal Opportunities Commission, National Probation Service and the Joseph Rowntree Foundation. We take part in international symposia and research projects, and act as consultants and advisers to a wide variety of government departments, professional organisations, research funding bodies and learned journals.


 
  National ratings

  In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014, research by the School of Social Policy, Sociology and Social Research was ranked 2nd for research power in the UK. The School was also placed 3rd for research intensity, 5th for research impact and 5th for research quality.

An impressive 94% of our research-active staff submitted to the REF and 99% of our research was judged to be of international quality. The School&rsquo;s environment was judged to be conducive to supporting the development of world-leading research, gaining the highest possible score of 100%.

In The Times Good University Guide 2016
, Sociology was ranked 1st (out of 93) for research quality and 10th overall.
 


 
  
   Contact us or order a prospectus 