Overview


Comparative Literature at Kent offers an excellent environment for the postgraduate study of literature beyond national and linguistic borders.

A PhD in Comparative Literature
 enables you to undertake  a substantial piece of supervised research on a topic that makes an original contribution to knowledge and is worthy of publication.

A PhD, also known as a doctorate, is a requirement for a career as an academic or as a researcher. In addition, it has become a qualification valued by many employers who recognise the skills and commitment a PhD requires. Employers also recognise that a PhD indicates excellent research and critical thinking capabilities, discipline and outstanding writing skills.

Over the duration of the PhD, you produce an original piece of research of up to 100,000 words.  Previous doctoral theses have included &lsquo;Logos, Bios and Madness in Nietzsche, Bataille, Foucault and Derrida&rsquo;, &lsquo;Representation and Depiction of Intimate Suffering in the Narratives of Esther Tusquets, Elsa Morante and Alberto Asor Rosa&rsquo;, &lsquo;Poetics of the Face:   Textual Portraiture in Modern English, Polish and Russian Literature&rsquo;, &lsquo;Samuel Beckett and the Writers of Port-Royal&rsquo;, and &lsquo;The Monster and the Maiden: Literary Affinities in the Writings of Iris Murdoch and Elias Canetti&rsquo;.

The Department of Comparative Literature
 offers supervision from world-class academics with expertise in a wide range of disciplines, able to support and guide you through your research. Your progress is carefully monitored to ensure that you are on track to produce a thesis to be valued by the academic community. Throughout your programme, you are able to attend and contribute to research seminars, workshops, and research and transferable skills training courses.


 
  National ratings

  In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014, modern languages and linguistics was ranked 3rd for research quality, 3rd for research output and in the top 20 for research intensity, research impact and research power in the UK.

Our submission was the highest ranked nationally to include modern languages &ndash; a testament to our position as the UK&rsquo;s European university. An impressive 100% of our research was judged to be of international quality and the School&rsquo;s environment was judged to be conducive to supporting the development of world-leading research.
 


 
  
   Contact us or order a prospectus 