Course structure


 This programme  includes day and longer visits to view sites and material, to undertake practical work, and to attend seminars and lectures at partner institutions such as the other universities in the Transmanche partnership, the Flemish Heritage Institute, University of Ghent and the Institut National de Recherches Arch&eacute;ologiques Pr&eacute;ventives.




 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

      
   CL805 - Contemporary Archaeology: Theories, Methods and Issues


   
    The module is designed with training, knowledge enhancement and skills acquisition to the fore. The module begins with an introduction to the origins and development of theoretical perspectives in archaeology (e.g. cultural history, the New Archaeology, Post-Processualism), and assesses the contributions of these approaches.  A central question is how we may study and define past society.  Artefacts and their value as evidence of the past are then considered within a contemporary intellectual framework.  Settlement sites are then examined and in particular approaches to understanding their morphology, elements and their identity as lived environments; spatial approaches are considered here too.   Approaches to the archaeology of landscape are in turn examined, this being a dynamic field in contemporary archaeological understanding.  How archaeological data is assesses, organized, and published is then examined from a theoretical and methodological angle.  Finally, how the various strands of archaeological data can be brought together to assemble a coherent picture of past human life and society are critically examined and reviewed.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   CL901 - Practical Archaeology Report


   
    


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   MT864 - Reading the Medieval Town:  Canterbury, an   International City


   
    This course will focus on a number of inter-related themes which will be studied through differing types of evidence from written and printed texts to objects and standing buildings. Consequently, certain seminars will take place outside the seminar room, looking at the evidence in situ. Topics will include the medieval topography, civic governance, urban defence, house and household, commercial practices and premises, parish church development, the place of religious houses, pilgrimage and city-crown relations, as a way of examining issues such as space, power, patronage and responses to changing social, political and economic conditions. Students will be encouraged to think comparatively, both nationally and internationally, to assess Canterburys place within medieval European society. 


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   CL807 - Roman Archaeology: Northern Provinces of the Empire from their Iron Age


   
    The module examines the varied, rich and extensive archaeological (and historical) evidence for settlement and social life in the area of the northern provinces of the Roman empire and its near neighbours during the Late Iron Age and Roman eras. The module structure is thematic and explores a range of inter-related topic areas. Particular emphasis is placed on new ideas and approaches. It is expected that there will be site and museum visits related to this module, undertaken in the south-east of England and/or on the near continent. Topics typically covered would be: the nature of the archaeological record for the era and approaches to its study; material culture and society in the Iron Age: production and consumption; regional patterns and identity in the Iron Age; continuities into the Roman era and the civitates system; the historiography of Roman studies in North West Europe; the archaeology of Roman London; the character and morphology of settlement in the Roman era: towns and cities, smaller centres and the countryside; material culture and society in the Roman period: production and consumption; regional civitas capitals; the archaeology of the Roman era in The Netherlands (Lower Germany); the Roman Saxon-Shore and military society; religion and ritual; society in the later Roman era and  the end of urban life; burial evidence and patterns; the archaeologies of people: gender, status, ethnicity and biography.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   CL821 - Ancient Greek Science: Astronomy and Medicine


   
    Ancient Greek concepts of rational science were vastly different from modern perceptions and discipline classifications.  Its foundation was grounded in philosophical discussions that considered the nature of the cosmos and all that existed within it.  This module demonstrates how the subjects were interlinked through a close analysis of the development of ancient astronomy and medicine, from the Minoan to the Hellenistic periods.  It discusses literary, philosophical and archaeological material.  In specific relation to astronomy, the themes to be explored are: the practical needs that led to the development of astronomy (e.g. agriculture, navigation and time-keeping); myths relating to the creation of constellations (catasterism myths); the composition of major astronomical texts and epigraphic material (e.g Eratosthenes, Katasterismoi, Aratus, Phaenomena and parapegmata inscriptions; the role of astronomical knowledge and observations to the development of Greek cosmological and philosophical thought (e.g. Aristotle and metaphysics, Plato, Aristarchus and the first heliocentric theory, Eratosthenes and the measurement of the size of the earth). With regards to medicine, the mythological significance of the Asclepiads will be discussed.  The first half of the module will focus on astronomy. The second half of the module will concentrate on medicine and begin with a discussion of the pre-Socratic philosophers introduction of the theory of the four elements: earth, air, fire and water that were present within everything, including the stars and the body.  From here students will examine how the theory of the four elements was transformed into the humoural system seen in the Hippocratic writings, and developed further through Aristotle and the Hellenistic anatomists.  Consideration will also be given to how the body and health were influenced by environment and astronomy discussed in the first half of the module.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   CL897 - CL Dissertation


   
    The Dissertation module comprises supervised research undertaken by the student, in the broad area of the history, literary sources and archaeology of the ancient world. A curriculum will be developed by the student around their own particular research interests.


    Credits: 60 credits
     (30 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

 
  
 






   Assessment

  
   The programme is assessed by coursework for each of the modules and by the dissertation.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   This programme aims to:

 introduce you to the archaeology of selected periods and regions, through a distinctive and unique programme, relating this to wider spheres of evidence and understanding in archaeology
 provide you with a robust grounding in theories, methods and approaches within contemporary archaeology (covering, for instance, phenomenology, materiality), examining too areas of controversy and differing expression
 explore a range of types of evidence appropriate to the periods and regions studied.
 establish the relationship of sites to their wider landscape and cultural setting
 identify processes of continuity and change with the archaeological record and to examine explanations for such trends
 confirm the extent of participation in broad European processes through time
 firmly develop your   practical archaeological abilities, for instance in handling, characterising, assessing and reporting types of material culture finds (artefacts) and other classes of evidence of the past
 enable you to engage critically with a selected theme or topic within the field of archaeology and history.
 assist you to acquire the critical and organisational skills necessary for successful completion of research for your supervised dissertation and other project work (this work being on an approved topic/s or theme of your choice)
 assist you to develop the necessary range of generic and subject-specific skills &ndash; in research, in data handling, in writing, and in the communication of ideas, using both traditional resources and the full range of contemporary IT resources.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You will gain knowledge and understanding of:

 the main approaches and methodologies characterising the critical study of archaeological remains in their varied forms within the overall discipline
 previous and current theories in archaeology
 familiarity with the archaeology of selected regions
 examination of site and artefactual remains
 comparative analysis of archaeological remains
 specialised research areas chosen from within the subject area and including critical and or practical study and reporting
 a selected research topic or theme, leading to the successful completion of a dissertation.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in:

 Critical analysis and interpretation of relevant primary and secondary   resources of a wide ranging nature
 Critical evaluation of empirical data
 Critical assessment of alternative theories and interpretations
 the ability to construct and defend arguments and conclusions in a coherent manner
 the ability to conduct independent, critical research.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 sensitive and critical evaluation of various categories of archaeological information (primary and secondary) within their historical, cultural, economic and environmental contexts
 the ability to engage with complex cultural processes developing through time and with various outcomes in different areas
 the application of theoretical and cognitive approaches to understanding past human actions in a variety of environments
 the utilisation of the full range of computing and IT skills and resources (word-processing, email, the internet, database searching, data management and manipulation via various software packages, etc)
 develop strengths in practical approaches to handling, processing and presenting a variety of types of evidence from the past.

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You will gain the following transferable skills:

 the exercise of initiative and personal responsibility
 the identification of &lsquo;problem&rsquo; areas and the ability to evaluate these and forward solutions
 the independent learning ability required for continuing professional development
 depth and maturity of thought in relation to specific subject-matter of research
 the ability to communicate intelligently and clearly via different media
 the application of classification and analytical skills in collating and categorising data
 coherence and organisation in task management
 the ability to work creatively and flexibly, whether on your own or with others in a group
 the ability to manage your time and resources effectively, especially under pressure (eg in relation to fixed deadlines or within the specific constraints of a class presentation)
 the ability to evaluate one&rsquo;s own academic and communicative performance, and to learn from the responses and criticisms of your peers and teachers
 the ability to assemble an effective project design and to implement that design successfully. 