Course structure






 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

      
   CL805 - Contemporary Archaeology: Theories, Methods and Issues


   
    The module is designed with training, knowledge enhancement and skills acquisition to the fore. The module begins with an introduction to the origins and development of theoretical perspectives in archaeology (e.g. cultural history, the New Archaeology, Post-Processualism), and assesses the contributions of these approaches.  A central question is how we may study and define past society.  Artefacts and their value as evidence of the past are then considered within a contemporary intellectual framework.  Settlement sites are then examined and in particular approaches to understanding their morphology, elements and their identity as lived environments; spatial approaches are considered here too.   Approaches to the archaeology of landscape are in turn examined, this being a dynamic field in contemporary archaeological understanding.  How archaeological data is assesses, organized, and published is then examined from a theoretical and methodological angle.  Finally, how the various strands of archaeological data can be brought together to assemble a coherent picture of past human life and society are critically examined and reviewed.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   CL900 - Research Skills in Ancient History - Understanding the City in Antiquit


   
    The module introduces students to key research skills for the study of ancient history and the associated discipline of Roman archaeology.  The focus will be on group work that will investigate how we can gain greater knowledge of an aspect of the ancient city.  In so doing, students will learn new skills ranging from researching bibliographies to the development of a sustained research project.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   CL807 - Roman Archaeology: Northern Provinces of the Empire from their Iron Age


   
    The module examines the varied, rich and extensive archaeological (and historical) evidence for settlement and social life in the area of the northern provinces of the Roman empire and its near neighbours during the Late Iron Age and Roman eras. The module structure is thematic and explores a range of inter-related topic areas. Particular emphasis is placed on new ideas and approaches. It is expected that there will be site and museum visits related to this module, undertaken in the south-east of England and/or on the near continent. Topics typically covered would be: the nature of the archaeological record for the era and approaches to its study; material culture and society in the Iron Age: production and consumption; regional patterns and identity in the Iron Age; continuities into the Roman era and the civitates system; the historiography of Roman studies in North West Europe; the archaeology of Roman London; the character and morphology of settlement in the Roman era: towns and cities, smaller centres and the countryside; material culture and society in the Roman period: production and consumption; regional civitas capitals; the archaeology of the Roman era in The Netherlands (Lower Germany); the Roman Saxon-Shore and military society; religion and ritual; society in the later Roman era and  the end of urban life; burial evidence and patterns; the archaeologies of people: gender, status, ethnicity and biography.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   CL821 - Ancient Greek Science: Astronomy and Medicine


   
    Ancient Greek concepts of rational science were vastly different from modern perceptions and discipline classifications.  Its foundation was grounded in philosophical discussions that considered the nature of the cosmos and all that existed within it.  This module demonstrates how the subjects were interlinked through a close analysis of the development of ancient astronomy and medicine, from the Minoan to the Hellenistic periods.  It discusses literary, philosophical and archaeological material.  In specific relation to astronomy, the themes to be explored are: the practical needs that led to the development of astronomy (e.g. agriculture, navigation and time-keeping); myths relating to the creation of constellations (catasterism myths); the composition of major astronomical texts and epigraphic material (e.g Eratosthenes, Katasterismoi, Aratus, Phaenomena and parapegmata inscriptions; the role of astronomical knowledge and observations to the development of Greek cosmological and philosophical thought (e.g. Aristotle and metaphysics, Plato, Aristarchus and the first heliocentric theory, Eratosthenes and the measurement of the size of the earth). With regards to medicine, the mythological significance of the Asclepiads will be discussed.  The first half of the module will focus on astronomy. The second half of the module will concentrate on medicine and begin with a discussion of the pre-Socratic philosophers introduction of the theory of the four elements: earth, air, fire and water that were present within everything, including the stars and the body.  From here students will examine how the theory of the four elements was transformed into the humoural system seen in the Hippocratic writings, and developed further through Aristotle and the Hellenistic anatomists.  Consideration will also be given to how the body and health were influenced by environment and astronomy discussed in the first half of the module.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   CL897 - CL Dissertation


   
    The Dissertation module comprises supervised research undertaken by the student, in the broad area of the history, literary sources and archaeology of the ancient world. A curriculum will be developed by the student around their own particular research interests.


    Credits: 60 credits
     (30 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

 
  
 






   Assessment

  
   The programme is assessed by coursework for each of the modules and by the dissertation.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   This programme aims to:

 provide research training in the subject area of Roman history and archaeology
 expand your depth of knowledge of key subject areas in Roman history and archaeology
 attract outstanding students, irrespective of race, background, gender or physical disability from both within the UK, and EU, and also from overseas
 develop new areas of postgraduate teaching in response to the advance of scholarship
 provide you with skills to equip you for a further career either for doctoral research in Roman history and archaeology, or in employment with,   the use of these transferable skills
 develop your competence in applying skills to analysis of a diverse body of ancient evidence
 develop your critical and analytical powers in relation to the ancient material
 provide you with the skills to adapt and respond positively to change
 develop critical, analytical problem-based learning skills and the transferable skills to prepare you for graduate employment
 enhance the development of your interpersonal skills
 provide you with opportunities for shared multidisciplinary learning with religious studies and philosophy
 assist you to develop the skills required for both autonomous practice and team-working.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You will gain knowledge and understanding of:

 a complex range of disciplines, cultural relationships and varied geographical regions at an advanced level
 the research skills associated with the use of ancient evidence to produce historical and archaeological narratives and analyses that engage with the most recent development in research in Roman history and archaeology
 basic philosophical issues by thinkers of very different cultural and linguistic assumptions from our own
 the nature of the societies and political systems of antiquity
 familiarity with an appropriate and diverse range of primary materials: material culture, epigraphy, papyrology, literature, visual material, and history
 a broad and systematic knowledge developed within a coherent framework of complementary subjects, including archaeology and history.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in:

 how to apply the skills needed for academic study and enquiry
 how to evaluate research and a variety of types of information and evidence critically
 how to synthesise information critically from a number of sources in order to gain a coherent understanding of theory and practice
 how to apply strategies for appropriate selection of relevant information from a wide source and large body of knowledge
 how to utilise problem-solving skills
 how to analyse, evaluate and interpret the evidence underpinning archaeological, historical, linguistic and literary  research critically.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 have an advanced  understanding of another culture, whether focused on its archaeology, history, literature, thought, art and religion, or its history and political and social organisation, or its material culture, demonstrate a critical engagement with it, develop an informed sense of the similarities and differences between it and our own culture
 have a broad knowledge, developed within a coherent framework, of complementary subjects, drawn from such fields as archaeology, history, art, literature, linguistics, language, and philosophy, or theme-based topics which cross the boundaries between them (eg religion, gender studies), and periods
 familiarity with, and be able to evaluate, an appropriate and diverse range of primary materials, e.g. archaeological evidence, historical texts, art objects, and inscriptions.
 command a range of techniques and methodologies, such as bibliographical and library research skills, a range of skills in reading and textual analysis, the varieties of historical method, the visual skills characteristic of art criticism, use of statistics (e.g. in archaeology), philosophical argument and analysis.

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You will gain the following transferable skills:

 the ability to communicate effectively with a wide range of individuals using a variety of means
 the ability to evaluate your own academic performance
 the ability to manage change effectively and respond to changing demands
 the ability to take responsibility for personal and professional learning and development (personal development planning)
 the ability to manage time, prioritise workloads and recognise and manage personal emotions and stress
 the ability to understand your career opportunities and challenges ahead and begin to plan your career path
 the ability to information management skills, eg IT skills. 