Course structure


 During the first term  at Canterbury you take two core modules. Your second term is in Rome and you take one core module and one optional  module. Over the course of these two terms you discuss with the course director your ideas and plans for your 15,000-word dissertation. The writing of the dissertation takes place in the summer with completion in August.




 Modules


 Term 1 (Canterbury):

Compulsory modules:

 CL900 -  Research Skills in Ancient History  

 CL805 - Contemporary Archaeology: Theories, Methods and Issues


Term 2 (Rome):

Compulsory Module:

 CL828 - Rome: The Imperial City


One option from:

Optional modules in Rome are taken through the American University in Rome and change each year.   Past options have included:

 
 Rome: Writing the city
 


This upper level Classics course will examine depictions of the city of Rome in classical literature. It will examine the fabric of the city and the idea of Rome as a symbol of civilization. The buildings and public spaces of Rome were the backdrop for performance, spectacle, ceremony and daily and these activities generated meaning and symbolism. For the Romans specific locations were connected to history, myth and collective memory and were protected by the genius loci. Amongst others, the following authors will be studied: Cicero, Livy, Lucan, Ovid, Propertius, Tacitus, Virgil. All texts will be studied in translation.

 
 Etruscan Art and
 


This is an upper level course studying the art and archaeology of the Etruscans from their emergence at the beginning of the first millennium BCE until their absorption by the Romans. The course will take full advantage of the rich museum collections of Etruscan material in Rome and will include a field trip to the sites of Cerveterii and Tarquinia. The course will look at the origins of the Etruscans, their art and material culture, their interactions with other groups and their eventual absorption by the Romans.

 
 Global Heritage
 


This upper level seminar course examines global heritage concerns looking in particular at how the past conditions the present and influences identity. Lectures and seminars will be built around four topics: the role of international organizations, heritage and memory, heritage and economic development and contemporary issues in global heritage. Each topic unit will be completed by a seminar where students will present case studies that illustrate the issues raised.

Term 3: Dissertation

 
 CL897 - Dissertation
 



 

      
   CL805 - Contemporary Archaeology: Theories, Methods and Issues


   
    The module is designed with training, knowledge enhancement and skills acquisition to the fore. The module begins with an introduction to the origins and development of theoretical perspectives in archaeology (e.g. cultural history, the New Archaeology, Post-Processualism), and assesses the contributions of these approaches.  A central question is how we may study and define past society.  Artefacts and their value as evidence of the past are then considered within a contemporary intellectual framework.  Settlement sites are then examined and in particular approaches to understanding their morphology, elements and their identity as lived environments; spatial approaches are considered here too.   Approaches to the archaeology of landscape are in turn examined, this being a dynamic field in contemporary archaeological understanding.  How archaeological data is assesses, organized, and published is then examined from a theoretical and methodological angle.  Finally, how the various strands of archaeological data can be brought together to assemble a coherent picture of past human life and society are critically examined and reviewed.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   CL828 - Rome-The Imperial City


   
    The module introduces students to sites and museum resources in the City of Rome through a series of weekly study blocks and is taught in Rome through collaboration between Kent staff and those of the American University in Rome.  Each block has been developed to ensure that classroom based learning, on-site learning and library based research by the students are fully integrated as a thematic package.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   CL829 - Rome Optional Module


   
    This module is satisfied by one of a number of modules provided by the American University of Rome.  Possible options include (subject to availability): Roman Imperial Art and Architecture Late Antique and Byzantine Art Museum Management Conserving Rome's Monuments The Mediterranean World Bodies and Burial


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   CL900 - Research Skills in Ancient History - Understanding the City in Antiquit


   
    The module introduces students to key research skills for the study of ancient history and the associated discipline of Roman archaeology.  The focus will be on group work that will investigate how we can gain greater knowledge of an aspect of the ancient city.  In so doing, students will learn new skills ranging from researching bibliographies to the development of a sustained research project.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   CL897 - CL Dissertation


   
    The Dissertation module comprises supervised research undertaken by the student, in the broad area of the history, literary sources and archaeology of the ancient world. A curriculum will be developed by the student around their own particular research interests.


    Credits: 60 credits
     (30 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

 
  
 






   Assessment

  
   The programme is assessed by coursework for each of the modules, an examination in Latin or ancient Greek, if these modules are taken, and by the dissertation.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   This programme aims to:

 provide research training in the subject area of Roman history and archaeology
 expand your depth of knowledge of key subject areas in Roman history and archaeology
 attract outstanding students, irrespective of race, background, gender or physical disability from both within the UK, and EU, and also from overseas
 develop new areas of postgraduate teaching in response to the advance of scholarship
 provide you with skills to equip you for a further career either for doctoral research in Roman history and archaeology, or in employment, with the use of these transferable skills
 develop your competence in applying skills to analysis of a diverse body of ancient evidence
 develop your critical and analytical powers in relation to the ancient material
 provide you with the skills to adapt and respond positively to change
 develop critical, analytical problem-based learning skills and the transferable skills to prepare you for graduate employment
 enhance the development of your interpersonal skills
 provide you with opportunities for shared multidisciplinary learning with religious studies and philosophy
 assist you to develop the skills required for both autonomous practice and team-working.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You will gain knowledge and understanding of:

 a complex range of disciplines, cultural relationships and varied geographical regions at an advanced level
 the research skills associated with the use of ancient evidence to produce historical and archaeological narratives and analyses that engage with the most recent development in research in Roman history and archaeology
 basic philosophical issues by thinkers of very different cultural and linguistic assumptions from our own
 the nature of the societies and political systems of antiquity
 familiarity with an appropriate and diverse range of primary materials: material culture, epigraphy, papyrology, literature, visual material, and history
 a broad and systematic knowledge developed within a coherent framework of complementary subjects, including archaeology, and history.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in:

 how to apply the skills needed for academic study and enquiry
 how to evaluate research and a variety of types of information and evidence critically
 how to synthesise information critically from a number of sources in order to gain a coherent understanding of theory and practice
 how to apply strategies for appropriate selection of relevant information from a wide source and large body of knowledge
 how to utilise problem-solving skills
 how to analyse, evaluate and interpret the evidence underpinning archaeological, historical, linguistic and literary  research critically.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 have an advanced   understanding of another culture, whether focused on its archaeology, history, literature, thought, art and religion, or its history and political and social organisation, or its material culture, demonstrate a critical engagement with it,   develop an informed sense of the similarities and differences between it and our own culture
 have a broad knowledge, developed within a coherent framework, of complementary subjects, drawn from such fields as archaeology, history, art, literature, linguistics, language, and philosophy, or theme-based topics which cross the boundaries between them (e.g. religion, gender studies), and periods
 familiarity with, and be able to evaluate, an appropriate and diverse range of primary materials, e.g. archaeological evidence, historical texts, art objects, and inscriptions.
 command a range of techniques and methodologies, such as bibliographical and library research skills, a range of skills in reading and textual analysis, the varieties of historical method, the visual skills characteristic of art criticism, use of statistics (e.g. in archaeology), philosophical argument and analysis.

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You will gain the following transferable skills:

 the ability to communicate effectively with a wide range of individuals using a variety of means
 the ability to evaluate your own academic performance
 the ability to manage change effectively and respond to changing demands
 the ability to take responsibility for personal and professional learning and development (personal development planning)
 the ability to manage time, prioritise workloads and recognise and manage personal emotions and stress
 the ability to understand your career opportunities and challenges ahead and begin to plan your career path
 the ability to develop information management skills, e.g. IT skills. 