Course structure


 The programme  has four 30 credit compulsory modules plus  a 60 credit dissertation, which  have been carefully designed  to cater for diverse interests.

During your studies you  are encouraged to immerse yourself in contemporary performance, to feed into your own work and broaden your experience. The on-campus  Gulbenkian Theatre and nearby  Marlowe Studio offer frequent opportunities to see touring productions and there is  a rich theatre and performance arts scene in the surrounding area, such as Accidental Collective (who emerged from this course),  programmes in Margate (the Theatre Royal and the Tom Thumb Theatre) and  events linked to the Turner Gallery.

We are also conveniently located for the high-speed rail connection to London St Pancras via Canterbury West. In London, you may catch our graduates in the Little Bulb Theatre, Battersea Arts Centre. You can also connect  from  Canterbury West to the  Eurostar terminals at Ashford or Ebbsfleet,  enabling you to visit important clusters of contemporary performance in Ghent, Utrecht and Berlin.




 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

      
   DR832 - Contemporary Performance Practice Mark 2


   
    This module forms part of the Fourth Year Specialism in Contemporary Performance Practice. During the Spring Term students work in collaborative contexts to develop and manage original practical and creative projects at an advanced level. This might involve them working as a director/performer and/or writer. Students may choose to work with other CPP students as an ensemble. Students will document the process, commenting and reflecting on their work as individual artists involved in collaborative practices. This may take the form of a website or can be paper based with supporting documentation. Students are also expected to play a role within the Contemporary Performance Practice Company, supporting the work of other company members. This might involve them performing in another students show or taking responsibility within the company for publicity, stage management, technical support, Front-of House or budgeting. The performance project is performed in weeks 21-24.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   DR833 - Contemporary Performance Practice Mark 3


   
    The research portfolio is an extended piece of performance documentation and analysis. It underpins the practical work undertaken in the co-requisite modules which comprise Contemporary Performance Practice. The portfolio explores the students creative and artistic development throughout the four modules. It engages in dialogue with the primary and secondary material encountered during the year and may contain case studies of artists or companies whose work has particularly influenced the student. The portfolio may reflect upon the first terms work, establishing the theoretical and methodological contexts in which the students performance work is situated. The document will analyse the processes involved in the conception and realisation of their individual performance project. It may include appropriate illustrative material (photographs, video, CD Rom, website). 


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   DR867 - Contemporary Performance Practice Mark 1


   
    Contemporary Performance Practice is about making theatre and performance from scratch, using any means necessary: daily life, visual images, objects, personal experiences, research, texts, history, the news, the media. The term contemporary performance includes a diversity of practices and artists whose work extends and interrogates the boundaries between theatre and other art forms (media, dance, photography, fine art, sculpture etc). The course is committed to producing work which is innovative, working with new technologies in interactive performance environments. At the centre of this specialism is a commitment to exploring the complexity of relationships between performer, space and audience. We have designed the course to be as flexible as possible, to cater for all your diverse interests. There are 2 elements which run in conjunction with each other: weekly skills workshops; and your ongoing creative projects. The workshops have been carefully planned to stimulate and inform your theatre making. 


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   DR881 - Contemporary Performance Practice 4: Professional Study


   
    This module requires students to undertake original primary research on an aspect of professional practice in the context of contemporary performance. This may involve students undertaking a placement with a company or practitioner and/or conducting interviews with a range of companies. Examples might include a study of site specific practitioners, an investigation of the use of new technologies in contemporary performance or an extended study of a single company or artist. The focus of the study must be on contemporary practitioners or companies and must include original research and field work.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   DR995 - Dissertation Project:(MA-T)


   
    Throughout their studies on a taught Masters-course, students will develop and pursue an in-depth research into a specific topic, thus their potential as appropriate for a postgraduate degree. Students will start shaping and preparing their research early in the year, deciding at the beginning of Spring Term whether they will pursue Options 1 or 2 as detailed below. Students will present either their practice-based research or an academic conference paper in Summer Term at a postgraduate conference organised by the department, and they will submit their final dissertation script in September.


    Credits: 60 credits
     (30 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

 
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Assessment is by written work, presentations, contributions to workshops and performance itself. The final dissertation requires you to research a project and present its findings in an appropriate form.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   This programme aims to:

 provide an internationally focused programme that offers engagement with the forms, practices, traditions and histories of theatre, as well as current theoretical debates
 allow talented students to develop their analytical, critical, conceptual and methodological skills, and to prepare them for further postgraduate research through their integration into the European Theatre Research Network (ETRN) or into the Centre for Cognition, Kinesthetics and Performance (CKP), hosted by the University
 enhance students&rsquo; conceptual understanding, creative skills, practical competences and sensitivity for differing cultural contexts and practices, equipping them with relevant competence and confidence and preparing them for future employment in the theatre sector and beyond
 provide an excellent quality of higher education; flexibility and a multidisciplinary approach and teaching informed by research and scholarship
 provide enjoyable learning opportunities that involve realistic workloads and are based within a research-led framework, offering appropriate support for all students from qualified and trained staff.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You gain knowledge and understanding of:

 the history, forms, practices, traditions and current configurations of drama, theatre and performance
 advanced critical, artistic and conceptual paradigms in order to comprehend, interpret and intelligently engage with the work of significant practitioners and theorists in the field
 various aesthetic, aesthetic, political, social, and intellectual contexts of drama, theatre and performance
 the wider interdependence of creative practice, critical theory, production processes and cultural policies
 the inherent interdisciplinary and trans-national location and context of theatre art and performance practice, and its relation to the public and audiences
 innovative, challenging and informed methods and practices of making performance; the processes of rehearsal, writing, scoring, devising, sceneography, choreography, staging, promotion and training techniques.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You gain the following intellectual skills:

 to critically reflect, drawing on a range of sophisticated perspectives, way about practices, theories, contexts and ideas that shape theatre today
 an awareness of intercultural and international differences
 the ability to engage creatively and imaginatively with textual, visual, and performed sources and artworks
 to appreciate and critically evaluate your own work and the work of others, demonstrating to listening, dialogue, and discussion
 to understand the interplay between theory and practice, and their mutual enrichment
 to devise, undertake and contextualise original research in a self-directed way
 to communicate ideas and information in an accessible and scholarly manner.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain the following subject-specific skills:

 to describe, analyse and critically interpret theatre texts, production techniques and performance events
 to trace, assess, and synthesize information and data from a range of appropriate sources
 to undertake research at an advanced level
 to engage with bibliographical and documentation techniques, performance and textual analysis, as well as other research methodologies
 to use archives, texts, electronic technology and other knowledge resources in theatre studies and the wider disciplines of the humanities
 to support creative work with rigorous research, appropriate documentation, and efficient conceptual consideration
 to engage confidently and competently in advanced academic research at the forefront of the discipline
 to undertake comparative study of practices and concepts from a diverse range of socio-cultural frameworks.

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You gain the following transferable skills:

 ability to exercise independent thinking and to demonstrate skills of problem solving and project planning
 confidence in interacting, negotiating and collaborating with others
 ability to source, organise, articulate and disseminate advanced ideas appropriately and effectively, in a way that advances knowledge
 ability to engage in continuous self-reflection, in order to expand your skills- and knowledge base
 proficiency in presenting complex thoughts, arguments, and data in coherent and lucid ways, both verbally and in writing, pitched appropriately to a range of audiences
 initiative in identify, create, address and successfully execute complex tasks and problems to a professional level. 