Course structure


 You can tailor your studies to your particular needs and interests to obtain an LLM or Diploma in a single specialisation, in two specialisations jointly, or by choosing a broad range of modules in different areas of law to obtain a general LLM or Diploma in Law.

Your choice of specialisation will be shaped by the modules you take and your dissertation topic.The double specialisation International Law with International Relations is slightly different to the other LLM Specialisations offered at the Kent Law School. International Relations is a &lsquo;minor&rsquo; stream which is only available when combined with the International Law &lsquo;major&rsquo; stream. For the award of a degree titled &lsquo;
Master of Laws in International Law with International Relations&rsquo;
 you should study at least three modules from the International Law stream together with your dissertation. You must then choose two modules from the International Relations &lsquo;minor&rsquo; stream. The remaining module  can be chosen from any of the other 
law
 modules offered on the LLM.  





 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of this specialisation stream. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation and student demand.   Most specialisation streams will require you to study a combination of subject specialisation modules and modules from other specialisation streams so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.

LW814 Public International Law

LW844 Legal Aspects of Contemporary International Problems

LW906 International Environmental Law &ndash; Legal Foundations

LW843 International Human Rights Law

LW846 International Criminal Law

LW884 International Environmental Law &ndash; Substantive Legal Aspects

LW886 Transnational Criminal Law

LW922 Labour Rights in a Global Economy

LW925 Cultural Heritage Law


 

    
  
 






   Assessment

  
   The postgraduate programmes offered within the Law School are usually taught in seminar format. Students on the Diploma and LLM programmes study three modules in each of the autumn and spring terms. The modules normally are assessed by a 4-5,000-word essay. Students undertaking an LLM degree must write a dissertation of 15-20,000 words.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   This programme aims to provide:

 LLM: The opportunity to develop (a) expert knowledge and a sophisticated understanding of particular areas of law; (b) advanced research, writing and oral communication skills of general value to postgraduate employment.
 PGDip: The opportunity to develop (a) expert knowledge and a sophisticated understanding of particular areas of law; (b) written and oral communication skills of general value to postgraduate employment.
 LLM: A sound knowledge and systematic understanding of the institutional structures, key principles of law and policy and influential ideas, theories, assumptions and paradigms of particular areas of law.
 PGDip: A sound knowledge and systematic understanding of the institutional structures, key principles of law and policy and influential ideas, theories, assumptions and paradigms of the subjects studied.
 LLM   PGDip: A degree of specialisation in areas of law and policy chosen from the LLM option streams available and an opportunity for students to engage with academic work at the frontiers of scholarship.
 LLM   PGDip: A critical awareness of the operation of law and policy, particularly in contexts that are perceived to be controversial or in a state of evolution.
 LLM: The skills to undertake supervised research on an agreed topic in their specialisation and to encourage the production of original, evaluative analysis that meets high standards of scholarship.
 LLM   PGDip: Critical, analytical and problem-solving skills that can be applied to a wide range of contexts.  
 LLM   PGDip: The skills of academic legal research and writing.
 LLM: A sophisticated grounding in research methods.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You gain knowledge and understanding of:

 the institutions, principles and structures of law in areas studied, and the policy background and interrelationships between them
 the key concepts, policy issues, principles; and relevant sources of law and policy in the areas studied
 the substantive law relevant to a range of key areas of law and policy
 the theoretical, social and academic debates which underlie the substantive areas of law studied
 the practical contexts in which law operates
 the importance of evaluating law alongside its theoretical and practical contexts: and
 the relationship and inter-relationship between areas of law studied.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in the following:

 effectively applying the knowledge of law and policy in areas studied to a wide range of situations where relevant practical or theoretical issues are under consideration
 evaluating  issues according to their context, relevance and importance
 gathering relevant information and access key sources by electronic or other means
 formulating  arguments on central issues and areas of controversy, and being able to present a reasoned opinion based upon relevant materials
 recognising  potential alternative arguments and contrary evidence to your own opinion, and presenting a reasoned justification for your preference
 independence of mind and the ability to offer critical challenge to received understanding on particular issues
 the ability to reflect constructively on your learning progression.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in the following:

 the ability to identify and characterise issues relating to areas of law studied, which arise in practical situations
 the ability to research and access the main sources of law and policy that are relevant to the area of law studied
 the ability to appreciate and evaluate the main theoretical and political perspectives that underlie the legal provisions
 the ability to provide a reasoned and justified opinion as to the possible legal consequences in particular circumstances
 awareness of the limitations of present knowledge and matters needing to be resolved by further research
 the ability to utilise research skills, at least, to commence further research into unresolved issues

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You  gain  transferable skills in the following:

 the ability to identify relevant issues from potentially complex factual situations
 the ability to undertake research from a diverse range of sources;
 the ability to summarise detailed, complex information accurately and concisely
 the ability to formulate arguments in verbal presentations and defend these against opposing views
 presenting information and arguments in written form, in accordance with academic conventions, and appropriately to the intended readership
 evaluating personal performance. 