Course structure


 You take a compulsory 30 credit module  &lsquo;Transnational American Studies: Research and Approaches
&rsquo;.  This is a year-long module designed to introduce key modes of analysis in transnational and interdisciplinary study as well as consider different methodologies, themes and intellectual debates.   Assessment  includes an extended essay, seminar presentation and a critical review of an academic research paper.

You also select 90 credits from a range of optional modules, spread across at least two disciplines.   Optional modules vary year to year and below is a selection of recent modules on offer:

 American Cold War Propaganda
 Geiger Counter at Ground Zero: Explorations of Nuclear America
 From Wounded Knee to the Little Bighorn Casino:  The Vietnam War in American History
 American Narrative in the Age of Postmodernism
 American Modernism
 Boundary Busting and Border Crossing
 Myth, Image, Fashion and Propaganda in the Cuban Revolutionary Era
 History and Memory
 American Foreign Policy


The remaining 60 credits are made up with a Dissertation.   Written over the summer term, this 12,000 word extended study allows students to work on their own research project based on primary research.   You have the opportunity to present your ideas as part of workshop sessions on researching American Studies in the core course and receive supervision from an academic specialist.




 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

    
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Assessment for this course includes an extended essay, seminar presentation and a critical review of an academic research paper.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   This programme aims to:

 provide you with a thorough grounding in the techniques and approaches necessary for advanced research in American Studies.
 promote interdisciplinarity as a conceptual mode of theory and analysis (encourage you to &lsquo;operate across disciplines, learning how to integrate a variety of approaches in formulating and solving problems, and using diverse materials and information sources.&rsquo;
 encourage critical reflection and engagement with public debates relating to aspects of American society.
 consolidate the strengths of our long-running undergraduate programmes whilst interrogating, challenging, and moving outside the exceptionalist rhetoric and nation-state ideology of conventional American Studies (develop a &lsquo;synthesising impulse&hellip;which can work across, as well as interrogate traditional discipline boundaries in innovative ways&rsquo;.
 promote a curriculum supported by scholarship, staff development and a research culture that provides breadth and depth   of intellectual inquiry and debate.
 assist you to develop cognitive and transferable skills relevant to their vocational and personal   development.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You will gain a knowledge and understanding of:

 The culture and society of the Americas
 Advanced methodological practices associated with research in American Studies
 The value of interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary perspectives
 The value of a transnational perspective in relation to study of the Americas (&lsquo;the similarities and differences between areas, thus fostering cross-cultural and international perspectives&rsquo;.
 texts and other source materials, read both critically and empathetically while addressing questions of genre, content, perspective and purpose
 the problems inherent in the cultural record itself, and the limits within which interpretation is possible

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop the intellectual skills in:

 advanced academic study
 organising, evaluating and presenting research findings appropriate to postgraduate study
 gathering, deploying and synthesising information from a number of sources in order to gain a coherent understanding of critical theory and general methodology
 making discriminations and selections of relevant information from a wide source and large body of knowledge
   reflecting on, and managing your own learning and to seek to make use of constructive feedback from peers and staff to enhance your own performance and personal research skills

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 the close critical analysis of documents of American culture, politics and society.
 a informed understanding of the variety of critical and theoretical approaches to American Studies.
 the ability to articulate knowledge and understanding of texts, concepts and theories relating to American Studies.
 the ability to understand a multi-disciplinary academic subject, with its array of literature, history and other discourses.
 the ability to combine various academic discourses (eg. Literature and History) in order to forge an interdisciplinary understanding
 the ability to construct an independent, research-led argument, marked by an inter- and multi-disciplinary pedagogy and scholarly practice .

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You will gain the following transferrable skills:

 Communication: the ability to organise information clearly; respond to written sources; present information orally; adapt style for different audiences; use of images as a communications tool.
 Numeracy: the ability to read graphs and tables; integrate numerical and non-numerical information; understand the limits and potentialities of arguments based on quantitative information.
 Information Technology: produce written documents; undertake online research; communicate using email; process information using databases and spreadsheets (where necessary).
 Independence of mind and initiative.
 Self-discipline and self-motivation
 Ability to work with others and have respect for others' reasoned views. 