Course structure


 Teaching on core forensic modules is enhanced by the contributions of several honorary teaching staff, all of whom are Chartered Forensic Psychologists working in applied settings (eg  in Special Hospitals, RSUs and prisons).

Recent research projects undertaken have included:

 an evaluation of the relapse prevention module of the Prison Service Sex Offender Treatment Programme
 an investigation of the incidence of sexual and physical abuse in the backgrounds of sex offenders with learning disabilities
 an investigation into non-verbal cues to lying in police interrogations
 an examination of organisational and psychological factors related to the treatment of offenders in a Maltese prison
 a study of the incidence of ADHD indicators in a young offender population
 a comparison of socio-demographic and psychological factors related to women who do, and do not, self-harm in a Special Hospital
 a study of the incidence of PTSD indicators in the prison population of the Channel Islands.


View this year's timetable (PDF)
. Please note that timetabling and modules may change from year to year.




 Modules


 The modules below are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.

The MSc in Forensic Psychology is composed of the following six compulsory modules:


 

      
   SP801 - Statistics and Methodology


   
    The aim of this module is to provide a postgraduate-level orientation to both basic and advanced contemporary statistical and methodological issues in psychology. It is compulsory for all our MSc students. The methodological issues considered include validity and reliability in measurement; experimental, quasi-experimental, and correlational research designs in the laboratory and field; observational, archival, and qualitative research methodologies; and the problem of bias in psychological research. The statistical techniques taught include univariate and bivariate descriptive and inferential statistics; psychometric techniques; exploratory data analysis; basic and advanced topics in ANOVA and ANCOVA; multiple regression; factor analysis; and structural equation modelling.


    Credits: 40 credits
     (20 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   SP809 - Research Project in Criminology,Legal or Forensic Psychology


   
    This module entails the student undertaking independent empirical research on a forensic topic. The area is guided by the students supervisor, but also informed by the Division of Forensic Psychology curriculum. The research is to be at a publishable level and should make an original contribution to the field, however it is not required to provide as comprehensive coverage or investigation as that which would be required for a PhD.During the process of conducting your research, you should adhere as closely as possible to your time plan and keep in close contact with your supervisor. Your supervisor will advise you on specific issues relating to content and structure, however, the structure of the research dissertation as two journal style articles means that is should be relatively easy to find copies of similar work in published journals. You are strongly encouraged to select a number of articles, which have looked at similar topics and use these to help you structure your work appropriately. In terms of review paper this may mean using similar sub-headings to group the work you have reviewed, historically or thematically and in terms of the empirical paper, this may mean looking at research which has used similar research techniques and identifying the elements which have to be included and looking at how others have presented the data. Both papers do need to be produced in appropriate journal format and the notes to authors in the forensic journals do provide useful guidance. A list of journals identified by the DFP as being good forensic journals is provided below. This is for guidance only and is not exhaustive; your supervisor will also help you to select appropriate journals and structures.Behavioural Sciences and the LawBritish Journal of CriminologyBulletin of The American Academy of Psychiatry and LawCrime & DelinquencyCriminal Behaviour and Mental HealthCriminal Justice & BehaviourCriminologyDevelopment & PsychopathologyExpert EvidenceThe Howard JournalInternational Journal of Offender TherapyJournal of Forensic PsychiatryJournal of Interpersonal ViolenceJournal of Police Science & AdministrationLaw & Human BehaviourLegal & Criminological PsychologyPsychology Crime & Law


    Credits: 60 credits
     (30 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   SP805 - Psychology of Criminal Conduct


   
    This course examines the topic of criminality from a broad psychological perspective. The evidence that consistent criminal tendencies can be reliably assessed is considered, and the extent to which personality factors can explain that consistency is evaluated. The study of offence behaviour and the contribution of investigative psychology to police work are examined. The concept of psychopathy is explored along with examining more generally the relationship between crime, law and moral judgement. The origins of the criminal tendency in childhood are detailed and its abundant expression in adolescence highlighted and examined. The role of victims in creating, defining and reporting crime is analysed, and the psychological consequences of crime for victims and potential victims are explored.This module examines the topic of criminality from a broad psychological perspective. The evidence that consistent criminal tendencies can be reliably assessed is considered, and the extent to which personality factors can explain that consistency is evaluated. The study of offence behaviour and the contribution of investigative psychology to police work are examined. You explore the concept of psychopathy before examining more generally the relationship between crime, law and moral judgement. Theoretical perspectives on the origins of the criminal tendency in childhood are detailed and its abundant expression in adolescence highlighted and examined. The role of victims in creating, defining and reporting crime is analysed, and the psychological consequences of crime for victims and potential victims are explored.


    Credits: 20 credits
     (10 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   SP806 - Psychology of Law and Justice


   
    This module examines the social psychological processes involved in defining an act as criminal and deserving of prosecution and conviction. When do we rightly blame someone for wrongdoing? How do models of blame inform our criminal justice system? The actions of police, suspects, witnesses and the courts are examined in turn. The police feature prominently in the early stages as they identify and apprehend offenders. Given evidence supplied by the police, the decision whether to prosecute will be taken. Before a case comes to trial, opportunities for the suspect to confess and to bargain, implicitly or explicitly, over the precise charge will have occurred. In court the prosecution and defence present their alternative narratives of the events that are alleged to have taken place for a jury to consider. The behaviour, attitudes, and role of witnesses are given separate consideration. Following a guilty verdict, the judge features prominently and factors determining sentence decisions will be examined, as will the influence of public opinion in the justice system. Further, the position of psychologically abnormal offenders will be discussed in relation to the appropriateness of current practice. We conclude the module by examining the psychological effects that imprisonment can have on offenders.


    Credits: 20 credits
     (10 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   SP825 - Assessment and Treatment of Offenders in Forensic Settings


   
    This module examines the variety of perspectives and practical methods employed by practising Forensic Psychologists in the treatment and training of both normal and psychologically disturbed offenders. The module sessions examine the assessment and treatment of offenders including sex offenders, firesetters, violent offenders, and female offenders who have been sexually abused, and the treatment of addictions in special hospitals, regional secure units and prison settings.Thise module examines issues relating to the assessment, management and treatment of offenders from a psychological perspective. An introduction to the role of clinical psychology within a maximum-security hospital explores issues related to working with dangerous mentally disordered and non-disordered offenders. The importance of assessment in understanding the function of offending, identifying treatment targets and measuring change are highlighted, along with the difficulties associated with it. The module explores the variety of perspectives and practical methods employed by practising Forensic Psychologists in the treatment and training of both normal and psychologically disturbed offenders. It begins with an extended site visit to Broadmoor Special Hospital, and continues with sessions on the assessment and treatment of offenders in both Special Hospital and prison settings, including sex offenders, arsonists, violent offenders, female offenders who have been sexually abused and the treatment of addictions. 


    Credits: 20 credits
     (10 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   SP847 - Forensic Cognition: Theory, Research and Practice


   
    What sort of thinking occurs in men who sexually molest children, rape adults, or commit acts of violence? Do these men think their actions are legitimate in some instances or do they know their actions are wrong but choose to offend nonetheless? Cognition, or thinking, is recognized as being a key component underlying the way people think and behave. Researchers and practitioners have spent endless time and resources investigating offenders cognition, to shed light on offenders antisocial behaviours. In this strongly research-based course, you will learn about some of the influential theories that have been developed to help explain offenders antisocial actions, the latest cutting edge research designed to help understand why men offend, and widely used treatment programmes designed to alter cognitive characteristics associated with offending in order to reduce recidivism. This course will not be limited to offenders cognition, however. You will also learn about fascinating social-cognitive phenomena associated with child and adult eyewitness testimony, and how memory can play havoc with the criminal justice system.What sort of thinking occurs in men who sexually molest children, rape adults, or commit acts of violence? Do these men think their actions are legitimate in some instances or do they know their actions are wrong but choose to offend nonetheless? Cognition, or thinking, is recognized as being a key component underlying the way people behave. Researchers and practitioners have spent endless time and resources investigating offenders cognition, to shed light on offenders antisocial behaviours. In this strongly research-based module, you learn about some of the influential theories that have been developed to help explain offenders antisocial actions, the latest cutting edge research designed to help understand why men offend, and widely used treatment programmes designed to alter cognitive characteristics associated with offending in order to reduce recidivism. This course will not be limited to offenders cognition, however. You also learn about fascinating social-cognitive phenomena associated with child and adult eyewitness testimony, and how memory can play havoc with the criminal justice system.


    Credits: 20 credits
     (10 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

 
  
 






   Assessment

  
   The MSc in Forensic Psychology aims to satisfy the academic component of professional training in forensic psychology (that is, to become a Chartered Forensic Psychologist). Throughout the programme, you attend non-assessed seminars and go on site visits.

The programme includes lecture, workshop and seminar-based teaching, as well as an individually supervised empirical research project.

Advanced Statistics and Methodology is assessed by examination. All other taught modules are assessed by written work and presentations. Research is assessed by two articles: one empirical paper and one review article on your chosen topic.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   This programme aims to:

 foster your intellectual development by providing you with specialised knowledge of a range of theoretical approaches to forensic psychology and statistical and methodological expertise in order that you should be well equipped to make your own original contribution to psychological knowledge
 provide teaching that is informed by current research and scholarship and that requires you to engage with aspects of work at the frontiers of knowledge
 help you to develop research skills and transferable skills in preparation for entering academic or other careers as psychologists
 satisfy the academic requirements of the knowledge base specified by the British Psychological Society
 enable you to manage your own learning and to carry out independent research
 help you to develop general critical, analytic and problem-solving skills that can be applied in a wide range of settings.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You will gain knowledge and understanding of:

 a range of general, historical, theoretical and philosophical issues underlying the disciplines of forensic psychology
 the major analytic techniques and research methodologies employed by forensic psychologists
 specialist knowledge and systematic understanding of the key issues in forensic psychology.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in:

 the ability to critically reflect on key themes
 the ability to produce sustained work
 discussion skills
 written analysis and interpretation of relevant material
 a critical awareness of both cognitive and neuropsychological approaches to the nature of mind/body.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 how to identify, locate and use material available in the library and online resources
 the major analytic techniques employed by forensic psychologists
 how to evaluate and select appropriate methods for researching questions in forensic psychology.

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You will gain the following transferable skills:

 numeracy: the ability to analyse data and make sense of statistical materials, integrate numerical and non-numerical information, understand the limits and potentialities of arguments based on quantitative information.
 communication: the ability to organise information clearly, write coherently and concisely about your chosen research area and other areas of forensic psychology, and give oral presentations about your work.
 working with others: the ability to review the work of others, work co-operatively in groups, understand ethical principles and the procedures for gaining ethics approval for research
 improving your own learning: the ability to explore your personal strengths and weaknesses, develop the skills of time management, review the student-staff relationship, develop specialist learning skills, develop autonomy in learning
 information technology: use computers for data analysis, word processing, graphical display of data for analysis and presentation, bibliographical research, documentation and email
 problem-solving: the ability to identify and define problems, explore alternative solutions and discriminate between them
 teaching and learning: we will provide lecture workshops on computing, drop-in computing surgeries, training in making oral presentations of research material, lecture-seminars on writing critical reviews of literature, carrying out literature searches, lecture-workshops on career development, media training and training in the dissemination of research findings.
 you will also sit computing tests and unseen examinations and write coursework essays. 