Course structure


 Teaching includes workshops, a two-week residency at Shakespeare&rsquo;s Globe, guest lectures from practitioners, as well as creative work both individually and in teams and groups. It culminates in an individual MA dissertation or an extended practical project.




 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

      
   DR873 - Approaches to Shakespeare


   
    This module aims to equip you with the knowledge, understanding and key skills appropriate to your developing independent study of Shakespeare at masters level and beyond, as well as providing an systematic overview of the history and shape of the discipline, current debates and controversies, theoretical and methodological contexts and procedures. Areas covered include: the Shakespearean canon and beyond; criticism and interdisciplinarity; primary research and the use of the archive; editing the text; reading performance; historicisms and the material turn; Shakespeare in the age of globalisation.  The module will also include visits to the National Theatre and Theatre Museum archives. 


    Credits: 45 credits
     (22.5 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   DR874 - Shakespeare on Stage and Screen


   
    This module engages with Shakespeare in performance in its historical and contemporary forms, on stage and on screen, equipping you with knowledge of the diverse histories and traditions of making and adaptation within the UK and beyond, as well as an appreciation of the formal, stylistic and generic variety of these histories and traditions. It also offers grounding in the theory and practice of performance and analysis and archival theatre research, using as its study material productions and practices both from the past and from the present.   Representative topics to be covered include: Shakespeare modern, postmodernism and the postdramatic; authenticity, heritage and the theme park; Shakespeare and the genre movie; actors views on Shakespeare; Shakespeare, interculturalism, and the contemporary world stage. 


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   DR875 - Production Project


   
    Occupying an intensive three-week block at the start of the summer term, you will work with a staff or professional director on a performance project based upon a Shakespearean or related playtext or poetic work(s), which, depending upon the size and configuration of the group, can take a variety of forms, ranging from a full production of a play to a devised piece or pieces. You will  participate in the project as, for example, performers, devisors, designers, dramaturg and/or assistant directors, contributing towards the development and realisation of the piece in public performance, and are also required to produce a written reflection on the process and its outcomes. 


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   DR877 - Shakespeare at the Globe


   
    This module explores Shakespeare in contemporary performance  in relation to the theory and practice of the Shakespeares Globe reconstruction in Southwark.  Addressing questions of authentic original practices and reconstructive performance, the module introduces you to the distinctive techniques of performing, spectating and audience interaction that have been developed in that space and elsewhere, and invites you to reflect upon, and interrogate, the relations between present and past practices.  The module is delivered through a study day at the Globe and a week-long period of workshops led by Kent staff. It is assessed by means of a short performance and a written portfolio. 


    Credits: 15 credits
     (7.5 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   DR995 - Dissertation Project:(MA-T)


   
    Throughout their studies on a taught Masters-course, students will develop and pursue an in-depth research into a specific topic, thus their potential as appropriate for a postgraduate degree. Students will start shaping and preparing their research early in the year, deciding at the beginning of Spring Term whether they will pursue Options 1 or 2 as detailed below. Students will present either their practice-based research or an academic conference paper in Summer Term at a postgraduate conference organised by the department, and they will submit their final dissertation script in September.


    Credits: 60 credits
     (30 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

 
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Assessment is by written work, presentations, contributions to workshops and performance itself. The final dissertation requires you to research a project and present its findings in an appropriate form.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   This programme aims to:

 provide a taught Master&rsquo;s programme that offers a sustained and intensive engagement with the forms, practices, traditions and histories of Shakespeare&rsquo;s works, in their own age and after, variously encountered as a literary corpus, material for performance across a range of media, and source of creative and critical intervention and reinvention
 develop your analytical, critical, conceptual, methodological and practical skills, and to prepare you for further postgraduate research beyond Master&rsquo;s level
 develop your understanding of, and engagement with, the historical, critical, theatrical and critical contexts within which Shakespeare&rsquo;s life, works and myths have been, and continue to be, produced
 foster your abilities as a critical and creative thinker, and as independent and self-motivated learner and maker
 offer you opportunities for advanced hands-on experience of the works as texts for and in performance.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You will gain knowledge and understanding of:

 the history, forms, practices, traditions and current configurations of Shakespearean poetry and performance
 the formal and generic conventions and characteristics of early modern poetry, drama and prose
 the historical, critical, editorial, artistic and conceptual contexts within which reading, performing, spectating and interpreting take place
 Shakespeare&rsquo;s relation to the work of his predecessors and successors, his contemporaries and ours
 the relationship between early modern literature, drama and theatre and the material cultural and historical circumstances in which they were   produced
 the nature and implications of Shakespeare&rsquo;s unique status as a global cultural commodity
 the contested relationship between Shakespeare&rsquo;s institutionalised status as national literature and its identity as theatre art
 the range and diversity of ways of reading, performing and transforming Shakespeare&rsquo;s works, particularly as encountered through the practices of making performance; the processes of rehearsal, writing, scoring, devising, sceneography, choreography, staging, promotion and training techniques
 Shakespeare&rsquo;s richness as a resource for appropriation and reinvention by creative artists across the cultural spectrum and in a wide range of media.  

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in:

 the ability to critically reflect, drawing on a range of sophisticated perspectives, way about practices, theories, contexts and ideas that shape our understanding of Shakespeare
 the ability to engage creatively and imaginatively with textual, visual, and performed sources and artworks
 how to appreciate and critically evaluate your own work and the work of others, demonstrating to listening, dialogue, and discussion
 how to understand the interplay between theory and practice, and their mutual enrichment
 how to devise, undertake and contextualise original research in a self-directed way
 how to communicate ideas and information in an accessible and scholarly manner.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in: (These will include practise and professional skills)

 how to describe, analyse and critically interpret poetic and theatre texts, production techniques and performance events
 how to trace, assess, and synthesise information and data from a range of appropriate sources in the field, both primary and secondary, printed, electronic, and other
 how to undertake research at an advanced level
 how to engage with bibliographical, editorial and documentation techniques, performance and textual analysis, as well as other research methodologies
 how to use archives, texts, electronic technology and other knowledge resources in literary and theatre studies and the wider disciplines of the humanities
 how to support creative work with rigorous research, appropriate documentation, and efficient conceptual consideration
 how to engage confidently and competently in advanced academic research at the forefront of the discipline
 how to undertake comparative study of practices and concepts from a diverse range of socio-cultural frameworks.  

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You will gain the following transferable skills:

 the ability to exercise independent thinking and to demonstrate skills of problem-solving and project planning
 confidence in interacting, negotiating and collaborating with others
 the ability to source, organise, articulate and disseminate advanced ideas appropriately and effectively, in a way that advances knowledge and adds value
 the ability to engage in continuous self-reflection, in order to be able to expand one&rsquo;s skills- and knowledge base
 proficiency in presenting complex thoughts, arguments, and data in coherent and lucid ways, both verbally and in writing, pitched appropriately to a range of audiences
 initiative in identify, create, address and successfully execute complex tasks and problems to a professional level. 