Course structure


 The programme consists of research training, two compulsory 30-credit modules and two 30-credit subject options. Teaching is primarily seminar-led, with some lectures. The dissertation is written under supervision.




 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

      
   FI811 - Conceptualising Film


   
    Conceptualizing Film will provide students both with an in-depth examination of certain key issues in film theory, as well as approaching them (predominantly) from a distinct perspective associated with an emerging 'paradigm' of theory, namely analytic philosophy of film. The module will be organized around a series of sub-themes within the general domain of the philosophy of film, including emotion and film, the aesthetics and ethics of film, the nature of photographic and filmic representation, and the ways in which films might themselves act as vehicles for philosophical ideas. Throughout the course we will also consider the different styles of philosophy and their relationship to film theory. Seminars will stress the importance of examining arguments with care and rigour, and will introduce students explicitly to certain formal philosophical 'methods' of assessing arguments (eg. spotting question-begging, understanding distinctions such as that between entailment and implicature, the use of counterexamples and thought experiments). The ability to acquire and put to use such skills will be central in students achieving module objectives.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   FI812 - Advanced Film Theory


   
    This course examines the historical trajectory of systematic writing about film. Topics include the aesthetic strategies of film in contrast with other arts; films relationship with reality; the interdisciplinary reach of Film Studies; and the particular kinds of engagement into which cinema invites its audience.  As a goal, the course should help students understand the major theoretical debates, empower them to better informed analyses, and challenge their assumptions about what film canor shouldbe and do. 


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   FI813 - Film History


   
    This course examines film history and historiography through case study. In carrying out this investigation students will be encouraged to work with archive and primary sources held in the library in order to help them to evaluate and contest received histories, which may be based on an aesthetic, technological, economic, and/or social formations. Through this investigation students will be better able to understand the role and value of the contextual study of film, while giving them the opportunity to research and write on an aspect of film history. The choice of case study will depend upon the expertise of the module convenor and is not restricted to a particular national cinema or period.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   FI815 - Film and Modernity


   
    This module explores the history of film in France, with a particular focus on the role and representation of Paris in cinema of the pre-World War II years. The module examines the medium of film, considering its specific qualities as an art-form and also the ways in which it is influenced by and influences other artistic and cultural forms from its beginnings in the caf&eacute;s of Paris to the establishment of the Cin&eacute;math&egrave;que in the wake of World War II. Each week we will be considering the other artistic forms that were being produced at the same time as the films that are the focus of discussions. Simultaneously, the module will expose the intimate relationship between the development of the modern city and the development of the cinema, with a particular focus on Paris and the ramifications of its modernisation. The module specifically seeks to assess the historical place of the cinema within the development of early twentieth- century culture in Paris. To this end our reading will range from the work of early French film theorists, through critical theorists, geographers, urban planners and cultural historians.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   FI998 - Dissertation:GPMS


   
    The dissertation is your opportunity to really explore the aspects of Film Studies that interest you most. You are encouraged to read as widely as you can. Exploit the Templeman library resources, and all the on-line facilities available to you through the library portals. Of course, watch relevant films too. The more research you do, the richer your experience.You can begin your independent dissertation research at any point and t is good idea to do have done some groundwork before you meet your supervisor.The main period for supervision is in the summer term, when you can expect to meet with your supervisor to discuss the progress of your reading and writing. You can expect up to four supervisory meetings, reasonably spread across the term.You should also arrange to meet your supervisor once in the Spring term in order to discuss the focus of your project, and also the kind of research you could begin to undertake in the Spring and Summer terms.The summer vacation period is a period of independent research, and supervision is not available.Your supervisor may agree to give you email feedback on a section of your draft during the summer vacation period, but you will need to arrange that with them well in advance.


    Credits: 60 credits
     (30 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

 
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Assessment is by coursework and the dissertation.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   The programme aims to:

 develop your understanding and skills to a notably higher level of sophistication and achievement (appropriate to an Master&rsquo;s level award) than would be expected at degree level, such that you leave the programme with a substantial analytic and critical understanding of film and film studies
 develop your understanding and skills to the level necessary for entry into a research programme in Film Studies
 develop your ability to think independently, argue with clarity and force, to discern areas of research interest within the field and be able to frame viable research questions
 provoke reflection on areas of critical and theoretical approaches to cinema and its context
 nurture the intellectual skills cited above in the context of written work (essays and dissertations) as well as in the context of interpersonal interaction (seminars, research papers, supervision)
 attract outstanding students irrespective of race, background, gender, and physical disability, from both within the UK and from overseas
 develop existing and new areas of teaching in response to the advance of research and scholarship within the subject, as well as new developments in filmmaking practice.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You gain knowledge and understanding of:

 the techniques which comprise film and related, moving audio-visual media, and the ways in which they are used to create meaning and experience
 concepts and practices integral to the production and reception of films, including authorship, genre, industry, stardom, style, modernity, national and transnational cinemas
 conceptualisations of our engagement with film, including the cultural, aesthetic, industrial and economic contexts in which viewing and exhibition occurs
 critical approaches to film, including an understanding of the historical and contemporary debates within film theory
 film histories and historiography, particularly as it informs the concepts and practices cited in the second point above.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in:

 constructing arguments and produce evidence appropriate for research at Master&rsquo;s level
 the ability to reflect critically on debates within the conceptual practices of the discipline
 designing and implementing research projects informed by interdisciplinary approaches in the humanities.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 articulating, in written and oral contexts, an understanding of film commensurate with the first four programme aims noted above
 analysing narrative and other forms and structures shaping films
 the ability to draw on interdisciplinary intellectual knowledge, methods and techniques drawn from other disciplines (such as psychoanalysis, philosophy, and literary theory) in the study of film
 mastery of the vocabularies developed to enhance the analysis and understanding of film and related media
 analysing, with precision, the images and sounds which comprise films.

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You gain the following transferable skills:

 the ability to communicate effectively in both oral and written contexts, at a level appropriate for the conduct of original research
 the ability to create, manage and self-direct essays and research projects, with the advice and supervision of teaching staff
 the ability to integrate skills of argument and reasoning with those of empirical observation
 the ability to contribute effectively to the exploration of a question or problem in the context of group discussion and analysis, through a combination of intervention, leading of discussion, and focussed attention to others
 the ability to deploy the subject-specific understanding of the nature of film and related media &ndash; in relation to, for example, social and ethical questions &ndash; in the context of participation in society as workers and citizens
 the ability to use various IT skills, ranging from word-processing and audio-visual presentation to research through web-based sources, at a level of sophistication commensurate with the production of original research. 