Course structure


 This flexible qualification opens up your career opportunities in investment banks, financial and management consultancies, auditing firms, risk management departments of financial institutions and government departments. The programme is designed for those with strong mathematical skills who seek a career in financial risk management.   Alternatively, depending on the specialisation modules selected, the qualification will open up career opportunities as quantitative analysts in large banks and other financial institutions. The international aspect enables you to gain a deeper and wider learning experience and to benefit from networking opportunities during your studies and after graduation.

The programme will afford students the opportunity to pursue their chosen specialism via two streams, one in Financial Engineering and the other in Risk Management. Students may concentrate on either of these depending on their interest and career aspirations.

Financial risk management and financial engineering are two sides of the same coin. Whereas a risk manager attempts to assess the risk and uses financial products to mitigate the risk of volatile markets, a financial engineer designs financial products that are independent of the changes in the market.

Both roles require highly developed quantitative skills, computer literacy and a good knowledge of financial products and their use.
  

  




 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

    
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Assessment is by a combination of coursework and written examinations. 