Course structure


 The programme is aimed at professionals and academics with an interest in sustainability in the built environment, including architects, engineers, geographers, surveyors, historians and urban designers. The MSc promotes a cross-disciplinary approach to research in the field of sustainability in the built environment, bridging the traditional boundaries between architecture and the sciences, research and practice.

The course content ranges from the development of the technical and scientific understanding required to develop sustainable design solutions for new and existing buildings, the analysis of past environment technologies, to a critical exploration of the context of sustainability and environmental design.

The programme may lead to a postgraduate diploma, if taken without the dissertation.




 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

      
   AR827 - Principles of Environmental Design


   
    The module consists of lectures that describe the important energy and material flows in a building and how these are driven and can be regulated. This includes methods for calculating the flow, storage and release of heat in a range of media including phase change materials, determining daylight provision, and calculations for providing sufficient passive ventilation.Built exemplar buildings are explored and their success assessed. Building fabric and services are explained and how resource requirements for maintenance can be reduced, whilst maintaining the function of the building. Advanced materials and techniques are introduced. Life Cycle Analysis is used to provide a decision tool to assess the sustainability of design. Climate change presents a new challenge to design buildings to be sustainable in the context of projected, but uncertain weather conditions. Future scenarios are investigated to reveal the implications for changing design parameters.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   AR828 - Rediscovery - Understanding Historic Buildings and Past Environmental T


   
    In this module students will explore the environmental dimension of historic buildings and evaluate past environmental technologies and strategies, through a combination of historical research and technical analysis. Student will be given two research based projects. In Assignment 1, which accounts for 25% of the total mark for this module, students are asked to research into the historical and cultural context of environmentally driven innovation in architecture. Students will explore the specific motivations and historical circumstances that have been driving the development of environmental technologies and scientific principles today and in the past.In Assignment 2, which accounts for 70% of the mark for this module, students will be asked to conduct a detailed environmental design case study of a historic building or environmental technology, combining historical research and technical analysis. Students have the choice to select from a number of case studies chosen by the module convenor or to study a building of their own choice. Students will conduct a piece of historical research with the aim of gaining a detailed understanding of the original environmental design intentions behind a particular historic building and the environmental technologies and control regimes deployed to achieve these objectives. Although each student will be assessed on individual pieces of work, the students are encouraged to work in cross-disciplinary teams of 2 to 4 students.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   AR829 - Monitoring and Modelling of Environmental Performance


   
    Students will explore a range of experimental and modelling techniques to evaluate the environmental and energy performance of buildings, This will include field surveys of appropriate case study buildings, where the students will experiment with monitoring the environmental conditions. They will select a range of techniques for the thermal and visual environment.Subsequent modelling of the building will enable them to further assess the environmental conditions and energy performance of buildings, identifying problem areas with appropriate mitigation techniques.The students will be working in groups of 2-3 for the monitoring stage and the oral presentation, which will provide them formative feedback. The modelling component and subsequent analysis of mitigation measures will be carried out individually.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   AR830 - Sustainable Design Project


   
    Students explore passive means of environmental control to achieve low energy and comfort under varying climatic conditions. Advanced techniques and methodologies for analysis of local climatic conditions, future weather predictions, site, and original buildings lead to the development of environmental design strategies.The influence of materials, form and construction on environmental performance is examined with reference to precedents and benchmarks.Students prepare proposals, firstly in the form of design strategies, for creating comfort in a hostile external environment. Orientation, shading requirements, thermal mass etc will need to be considered. A clear and rigorous rationale for the design strategies will form part of this workLater, students prepare environmental design strategies and design proposals for either the retrofit of an existing building or a replacement building, which improves on the shortcomings of an original building. Building Performance Evaluation data on a case study building will be provided to students. 


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   AR899 - Dissertation: Architecture and the Sustainable Environment


   
    Students will work independently to research in-depth a topic of their own choice in the field of sustainable architecture and built environment, to produce a 15,000 words document.They will need to critically evaluate the state-of-the-art literature and develop the methodology for answering the formulated research questions.  The subsequent methodology can vary depending on the selected topic (archives, monitoring, modelling, thermal simulation, etc.)They will be supported by their tutor, developing their methodology and discussing the research results, but ultimately they will be responsible for the development of the final document.


    Credits: 60 credits
     (30 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

 
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Assessment is mostly based on coursework, with presentations, case-study analyses, design proposals, essays and the dissertation.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   This programme aims to:

 enable students to develop systematic understanding of the effect of the built environment on the environmental performance and energy consumption of buildings, while optimising comfortable conditions for the occupants
 develop your understanding of the sustainability drivers for the built environment
 develop your in-depth knowledge of the theoretical principles of low carbon design
 develop the ability to analyse the environmental behaviour of historic structures and the efficiency of past environmental technologies, using modern scientific methods
 promote creativity in the integration of sustainable solutions in the built environment at different scales
 enable you to develop skills for physical monitoring and digital modelling of the environmental and energy performance of buildings
 provide you with the ability to work in multidisciplinary design teams
 promote and support independent research skills.
 enable you to develop the skills required for both autonomous practice and team-working.
 support you, so that you can fulfil your full potential in the programme.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You will gain knowledge and understanding of:

 the complexity of energy performance of buildings and their occupants&rsquo; interactions
 impact of the physical environment on the environmental and energy performance of buildings
 fundamental concepts of building science and principles for low energy design, in relation to heating, cooling, ventilation and lighting
 a comprehensive, critical analysis of the environmental behaviour of historic buildings and the associated environmental technologies
 the range of techniques for analysing the environmental and energy performance of buildings
 A holistic approach that enables development of design strategies for low energy buildings, for both new as well as retrofitting developments, that are equally culturally and environmentally sustainable.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in:

 the ability to apply the skills needed for academic study and enquiry
 the ability to develop analytical and critical skills in understanding the environmental and energy performance of buildings
 the ability to synthesise information from a number of sources in order to gain a coherent understanding of theory and application in the relevant framework
 the ability to resolve complex problems in developing low energy buildings.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 the ability to develop strategies for low energy design for new and retrofitted building developments
 the ability to produce technical analytical reports for the development of sustainable buildings
 the ability to use appropriate monitoring techniques and software tools for evaluating the environmental and energy performance of buildings
 the ability to use visual, verbal and written communication to present the analysis of design proposals
 the ability to work in multidisciplinary design teams.

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You will gain the following transferable skills:

 the ability to communicate effectively with a wide range of individuals using a variety of means
 the ability to generate, analyse, interpret and present data
 the ability to prepare critical arguments (written, visual and oral) based on thorough theoretical analysis and empirical research
 the ability to work effectively individually as well as in a team
 the ability to manage time and resources and prioritise workloads
 the ability to take responsibility for your personal and professional learning and development (personal development planning and CPD). 