Overview


A PhD in German and Comparative Literature enables you to undertake a substantial piece of supervised research that makes an original contribution to knowledge and is worthy of publication.

A PhD, also known as a doctorate, is a requirement for a career as an academic or researcher. In addition, it has become a qualification valued by many employers who recognise the skills and commitment a PhD requires. Employers also recognise that a PhD  indicates excellent research capabilities, discipline and communication skills.

Over the duration of the PhD, you produce an original piece of research of up to 100,000 words, in English or in German.  Current theses being written between the departments of German and Comparative Literature include a comparison of W.G. Sebald and Orhan Pamuk as &lsquo;marginal&rsquo; writers, and a study of post-Holocaust and post-colonial &lsquo;trauma&rsquo; discourses.

Both the Department of Modern Langugaes
  and the Department of Comparative Literature
 offer supervision from world-class academics with expertise in a wide range of disciplines, able to support and guide you through your research. Your progress is carefully monitored to ensure that you are on track to produce a thesis valued by the academic community. Throughout your programme, you are able to attend and contribute to research seminars, workshops, and research and transferable skills training courses, many of which benefit from the broader context of the Centre for Modern European Literature
. You are also likely to gain experience teaching.

  


 
  National ratings

  In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014, modern languages and linguistics was ranked 3rd for research quality, 3rd for research output and in the top 20 for research intensity, research impact and research power in the UK.

Our submission was the highest ranked nationally to include modern languages &ndash; a testament to our position as the UK&rsquo;s European university. An impressive 100% of our research was judged to be of international quality and the School&rsquo;s environment was judged to be conducive to supporting the development of world-leading research.
 


 
  
   Contact us or order a prospectus 