Course structure


 This programme provides you with a good understanding of modern Spanish and Spanish- American society. It consists of two parts: a literary element, which is taught in conjunction with the MA in Hispanic and Comparative Literature, and a cultural element which is a distinctive part of this MA. We teach all subject options in Spanish, but accept written work in both English and Spanish.




 Modules


 The following modules are indicative of those offered on this programme. This list is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.   Most programmes will require you to study a combination of compulsory and optional modules. You may also have the option to take modules from other programmes so that you may customise your programme and explore other subject areas that interest you.


 

      
   LS806 - Spanish Cinema


   
    This module aims to provide students with an analysis of some of the main trends and issues which have characterized Spanish cinema from the 1940s to the turn of the 21st century. The course will consider the place of art-cinema and popular cinema in Spain and Spanish film studies, looking at the work of a variety of directors. One of the main aims of this course is to understand films as cultural artefacts that reflect cultural, artistic, social and political debates within Spain.The module is also designed to provide students with concepts and terminology in the field of film and cultural studies and, more generally, cultural theory. Thus while the content of the module is organized chronologically to introduce students to the diverse range of film forms and film styles in the history of Spanish cinema, the course is also designed to introduce students to key theoretical approaches to the study of film. Through the analysis of individual films students will apply critical approaches to familiarise themselves with recurring debates within film culture in general and Spanish film studies in particular.Students do not require knowledge of Spanish language to study this module.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   LS810 - History and Memory: Exploring the   Independence period throug


   
    This module will use the many memoirs produced by the main participants in the independence movement. By studying in tandem personal recollections of events, some written many years later by people from all sides of the conflict we will explore the difficulties with establishing the historical truth as well as the opportunities afforded by using first hand accounts. The main aim will be to understand the intricacies of conflict through personal experiences, and to provide an exposure to the process of writing history.


    Credits: 30 credits
     (15 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

   
   LS998 - Spanish Dissertation


   
    The dissertation element represents the culmination of the students' work on the programme. It offers students the opportunity to carry out a piece of extended independent research which builds on the work carried out during the taught part of the course, and to show their ability to organise and present their idea in a coherent and convincing fashion.


    Credits: 60 credits
     (30 ECTS credits).



    Read
      more 


   

  

 
  
 






   Assessment

  
   Assessment is by 4-6,000 words of written work per module and the dissertation.
  

 
   Programme aims

  
   The programme aims to:

 build on proficiencies in spoken and written Spanish
 enable you to explore areas of modern Hispanic culture in depth
 develop a critical awareness of these areas
 introduce various methodological approaches
 provide teaching which is informed by current research and scholarship and which  requires you to engage with aspects of work at the frontiers of knowledge
 provide a means of access to intercultural awareness and understanding
 provide opportunities for the development of personal, communication, research and  other key skills appropriate for graduate employment both in industry and in the public sector
 develop general critical, analytical and problem-solving skills which can be applied in a wide range of situations
 reinforce Spanish language skills.

  

 
   Learning outcomes

  
   Knowledge and understanding

   You gain knowledge and understanding in:

 twentieth-century Spanish literature
 twentieth -century Spanish art, music and popular culture
 Spanish avant-garde
 Spanish cinema
 twentieth-century Spanish history
 literature, visual arts and identity in twentieth-century Spanish America.

  

 
   
   Intellectual skills

   You develop intellectual skills in:

 how to develop the skills needed for academic study and enquiry
 how to evaluate information critically
 how to synthesise information from a number of sources in order to gain a coherent understanding of the subject
 how to utilise problem-solving skills
 how to utilise communication skills for the coherent expression and transfer of knowledge
 how to analyse, evaluate and interpret a variety of types of evidence in a critical manner
 how to study and reach conclusions independently.

  

 
   
   Subject-specific skills

   You gain subject-specific skills in:

 developing your reading speed in Spanish
 developing your detailed knowledge and effective understanding of the various structures and registers of Spanish
 analysing critically a variety of texts and artistic products including literary texts, historical texts, art works and music
 refining skills in these two related areas: reception (listening and reading), production (speaking and writing)
 communicating effectively in Spanish (optional).

  

 
   
   Transferable skills

   You gain the following transferable skills:

 communicate effectively with a wide range of individuals using a variety of means
 evaluate your own advanced academic performance
 utilise problem-solving skills in a variety of theoretical and practical situations
 refine accurate and effective note-taking and summarising skills
 library and bibliographical research skills
 take responsibility for your personal and professional learning and development
 manage time and prioritise workloads, think and perform under pressure
 leadership abilities
 work creatively and flexibly
 deploy a range of information technology skills effectively, such as word processing text with footnotes, basic formatting, using email, searching databases and text files, navigating the world wide web. 