Overview


Without doubt, Italy is a cornerstone of European culture  as well as providing a controversial and stimulating area of studies in the modern period.

A PhD  in Italian enables you to undertake a substantial piece of supervised research in the subject that makes an original contribution to knowledge and is worthy of publication.

A PhD, also known as a doctorate, is a requirement for a career as an academic or researcher. In addition, it has become a qualification valued by many employers who recognise the skills and commitment a PhD requires. Employers also recognise that a PhD?indicates excellent research capabilities, discipline and communication skills.?

Over the duration of the PhD, you produce an original piece of research of up to 100,000 words, in English or Italian.  Previous research theses have included &lsquo;Elements of Magic(al) Realism: Deledda, Bontempelli, Banti&rsquo;, &lsquo;A Clinic of Lack: Franco Basaglia, Biopolitics and the Italian Psychiatric Reform&rsquo;, &lsquo;Italo Calvino and Pier Vittorio Tondelli: Love in Post World War Italy&rsquo; and &lsquo;Anna Banti and the (Im)possibility of Love&rsquo;.

The Department of Modern Languages
  offers supervision from world-class academics with expertise in a wide range of disciplines, able to support and guide you through your research. The main areas of research are early twentieth-century avant-garde literature, twentieth-century poetry, psychoanalytic literary criticism, the intersection of literature and photography, Italian biopolitical thought, and the cultural history of psychiatry and the Italian anti-psychiatric movement. Your progress is carefully monitored to ensure that you are on track to produce a thesis valued by the academic community. Throughout your programme, you are able to attend and contribute to research seminars, workshops, and research and transferable skills training courses.


 
  National ratings

  In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014, modern languages and linguistics was ranked 3rd for research quality, 3rd for research output and in the top 20 for research intensity, research impact and research power in the UK.

Our submission was the highest ranked nationally to include modern languages &ndash; a testament to our position as the UK&rsquo;s European university. An impressive 100% of our research was judged to be of international quality and the School&rsquo;s environment was judged to be conducive to supporting the development of world-leading research.
 


 
  
   Contact us or order a prospectus 