Entry requirements A good (2:1) honours degree in a relevant subject will be required as well as Maths and English GCSE Grade C or above. It is also expected that you will have at least six months  full-time relevant experience in social care/social work (or its equivalent part-time). This need not be paid work but could be voluntary work or unpaid work caring for a relative with a disability. Applicants with a 2:2 honours degree may be considered in circumstances where they have a sustained period of relevant experience and/or have work experience at a senior (management) level. Candidates already holding a Master's qualification may also be considered.   If you meet these criteria you can apply through UCAS. The selection process for an MA degree in Social Work at the University of Kent consists of two stages. Stage 1: all applicants who are considered to meet the entry criteria for the programme are invited to attend the University to sit a written test. Those applicants who pass the written test are invited to return for the second stage of the process: an interview day. Stage 2: the interview day is made up of two parts, an individual interview with a lecturer and a practitioner and an observed group discussion. At interview, each candidate is asked a number of (the same) questions covering issues such as motivation to undertake social work training and postgraduate study, expectations of the degree, background experience  and awareness of the social work role, etc. Some previous experience of understanding people and possession of good communication skills help in interview. Candidates also take part in an observed group discussion with a number of other candidates. The group is asked to discuss a question relating to social work for around 30 minutes. The discussion is observed by a lecturer and two service users or carers. This selection process is in line with other social work courses and is also consistent with guidance from social work's professional and regulatory bodies.    General entry requirements Please also see our   general entry requirements .   English language entry requirements For detailed information see our   English language requirements   web pages.   Please note that if you are required to meet an English language condition, we offer a number of pre-sessional courses in English for Academic Purposes through   Kent International Pathways .