STRUCTURE OVERVIEW
     
  Core programme content
     
Year 1
Basic and advanced practice management
e-marketing your dental practice
Accessing your patients through enhanced communication skills and social media enterprises
MI philosophy, ethics and medico-legal considerations / clinical record keeping-photography
Clinical Cariology &ndash; detection   diagnosis, risk assessment, non-operative prevention and control strategies for the practice and the patient
Research methods
  
Year 2
Minimally invasive tooth preserving operative caries management &ndash; practical techniques and their clinical implementation
Contemporary adhesive dental materials &ndash; science and application
MI tooth preserving operative procedures in Restorative Dentistry / aesthetics
  
Year 3
Practice-based case portfolios
Dissertation &ndash; practice-based research
View more detailed information about modules on this course.
     
     
   
   FORMAT AND ASSESSMENT
  This flexible learning Masters programme will be assessed through a combination of assignments, some written examinations, clinical case presentations and a dissertation. In the first two years, some modules are assessed by a combination of 60 per cent written examination and 40 per cent written assignments. For each module, you must complete a self-assessment exercise, a formative assignment and a final summative essay/assignment, to be entered into the end of year written examinations.
During the course, clinical work is also undertaken which is assessed by submission of clinical case presentations, both written or online. In the final year, you will be allocated a supervisor, undertake a research project and write a dissertation. If you fail an assessment element at the first sitting, you will be permitted one further attempt. Exams can be taken in London or, for overseas students, at centres in the student's country of residence.
Overseas examinations incur an additional fee payable to the Examinations Office. Further details of overseas exam arrangements and applicable fees can be viewed here
.