STRUCTURE OVERVIEW
     
  Core programme content
   Pro-social and anti-social behaviour across the lifespan
Risk management, treatment and services for mentally disordered persons
Dissertation (for MSc only).

     
   Indicative non-core content
   Optional modules (subject to availability):
Research Methodology   Statistics A   B
Psychology of the Legal   Investigative Process
Forensic Psychology Practice in Context (Clinical Forensic Psychology only)
Structured Professional Risk Assessment and Management.

     
   
   FORMAT AND ASSESSMENT
  Teaching methods include lectures, group work, discussions, case analyses. Assessment varies by module; methods include essays and other written assignments, written and oral examinations, research project.
   
   MODULES
   More information on typical programme modules.
   NB it cannot be guaranteed that all modules are offered in any particular academic year.
      Prosocial and antisocial behaviours across the lifespan  - Required

   
      
  
    
      Teaching staff:  
Dr Nigel Blackwood  
     Module code:  
7PAFMMEN    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
    Credit value:  
30    
    
      Semester:  
    Semester 1 (autumn)      
   
    
  
      Assessment:  
      coursework     
   
    
    
      Assessment 1(1/3 of module mark)
1a: 2000 words (+/-10%) essay (Research and Psychiatry pathway students)
1b: 1000 words (+/-10%) essay (Psychology pathway students)
Assessment 2 (2/3 of module mark)
2a: 4000 words (+/-10%) essay (Research and Psychiatry pathway students)
2b: 2500 words (+/-10%) essay (Psychology pathway students

Students will be expected to attend every lecture and to complete the required readings. It is a programme requirement that students&rsquo; attendance should be at least 80% for each taught module.
     
  A review of what is known about the aetiology of antisocial and criminal behaviours among children and adults with mental disorders
To help students gain an understanding of the key processes which underpin prosocial behaviour
To help students gain an understanding of how these processes go awry in children with conduct disorder and adults with antisocial personality disorder, with and without psychopathy
To help students gain an understanding of recent evidence concerning the aetiology of antisocial and criminal behaviours among persons with neurodevelopmental disorders including autistic spectrum disorders and psychotic illnesses
To prepare students to be able to critically review new findings in the field

  
     
  
    
    
    
    
   
    
    
    
    
  
  
  
  
    
     
      Structured Professional Risk Assessment and Management - Optional (certain pathways only)

    
  
      Teaching staff:  
Dr Adrian Cree and Dr Shubulade Smith  
     Module code:  
7PCFMSPR    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
    Credit value:  
30  
  
  
      Semester:  
    Semester 2 (spring)     
   
    
  
      Assessment:  
      coursework;     presentation/s;     
      a: Group presentation (50% of module mark)

b: 1500 words (+/- 10%) formal forensic risk assessment (50% of module mark)

     
  Content:
At the end of this module, students should have a critical awareness of the strengths and limitations of the main approaches to risk assessment and management. They should be confident in assessing risk and developing risk management plans for mentally disordered individuals. They should also have an understanding of how to implement the use of such tools in everyday clinical practice.
Objectives:
To educate students in the principles of risk management
To develop a critical awareness of the limitations and strengths of the main approaches to the assessment and management of risk.
To train students in both basic and advanced risk assessment and risk management
To ensure that students understand the scientific underpinning of risk management
To provide students with the opportunity to practice risk assessment and develop risk management plans in a structured environment.
To provide students with an understanding of how to utilize risk assessment tools in everyday clinical practice and how to implement the use of such tools across a clinical service.
(Experienced clinicians NOT on the Psychology pathway only - qualified psychiatrists, mental health nurses, chartered forensic or clinical psychologists, occupational therapists or other mental health professionals with experience of working in a service which works entirely or very frequently with people who have a forensic history as well as a diagnosis of mental disorder.)

  
     
    
    
     
      The Psychology Of The Legal And Investigative Process - Required/Optional (depending on pathway)

    
  
      Teaching staff:  
Dr Delphine Theobald and Dr Joel Harvey  
     Module code:  
7PCFMPLI    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
    Credit value:  
15  
  
  
      Semester:  
    Semester 2 (spring)     
   
    
  
      Assessment:  
      coursework     
      Assessment (100% of module mark): 2500 words (+/- 10%) take-home examination
Students will be expected to attend every lecture and to complete the required readings. It is a programme requirement that students&rsquo; attendance should be at least 80% for each taught module.
     
  Objectives:
To provide students with advanced knowledge and awareness of the English legal system and an understanding of the approach of the criminal courts towards defendants (including mentally disordered defendants and those who are not fit to be tried).
To provide an understanding of the remedies available in the civil courts and tribunals to litigants who have suffered psychological injuries.
To provide an advanced understanding of the procedures and safeguards which exist for the interviewing of people with vulnerabilities, e.g. children, persons with learning disability and mentally disordered persons.
To provide an understanding of the principal rules of evidence in criminal cases and the special rules which apply to expert witnesses in civil and criminal cases.
To provide an understanding of how the Human Rights Act 1998 underpins or affects the rights of police suspects, defendants, and litigants in the United Kingdom courts and tribunals.
To provide an advanced understanding of victims, witnesses and suspects, including their legal rights.
To expose students to the major theoretical formulations and models applicable to the investigative process such as memory and decision making in order to provide a conceptual underpinning to inform their approach to research and practice.
To provide opportunities to develop interpersonal, technical and creative skills required for the effective analysis and formulation of problems connected to the investigative process and evaluation of domain relevant interventions.
To provide students with advanced knowledge and skills in the role of the expert witness, including preparation and evaluation of court reports, and presentation of evidence in court.
Content:
The English legal system and sources of the law (criminal and civil)
Mental Health and the Law
Restorative justice (with focus on the needs of victims, offenders and the community)
The police and psychology (including ethical considerations and competence)
Interviewing suspects (a review of psychological issues and models pertaining to the investigative process).
Deception and false confession (detection of deception, suggestibility, vulnerability)
Court skills and the role of expert witnesses (a practical demonstration of expert evidence and court skills).
Psychological issues in civil law ( focus on vulnerable individuals; children and youth)
Critical Incidents (the use of negotiation in secure settings)
Offender profiling, crime analysis, behavioural case linkage
Legal decision making (jury decision making, judicial sentencing)