STRUCTURE OVERVIEW
     
  Core programme content
   &bull; Principles of implementation and improvement science (30 credits)
&bull; Measurement and evaluation in healthcare practice (15 credits)
&bull; Issues in the conduct of health services research (15 credits)
&bull; Implementation and improvement science dissertation (60 credits)
    
The total credit value of compulsory modules is 120.
    
The January intake is for students wishing to undertake the course part-time. For the first two terms, part-time students will spend every Monday in college. After this, the amount of time in college will vary depending on the optional modules chosen.
    
(The September 2016 intake will offer students the choice to undertake the course on a full-time or part-time study basis. Applications will open next year.)
     
   Indicative non-core content
   &bull; Advanced qualitative methods (30 credits)
&bull; Advanced qualitative research methods (30 credits)
&bull; Advanced statistical methods in psychiatric epidemiology (15 credits)
&bull; Comparative public policy analysis (20 credits)
&bull; Engaging publics in health research: theory, politics and practices (15 credits)
&bull; Foundations, methods and practices of international development evaluation (20 credits)
&bull; Health economics and health policy (15 credits)
&bull; Health policy and healthcare system in emerging economies (20 credits)
&bull; Key issues in health policy (15 credits)
&bull; Leadership in change management (15 credits)
&bull; Leadership in health and social care (15 credits)
&bull; Mental health economic evaluation (15 credits)
&bull; Qualitative research methods in mental health (15 credits)
&bull; Quality and patient safety (15 credits)
&bull; Social research methods for public health (15 credits)
&bull; Sociology of health and illness (15 credits)
&bull; Strategic health management (15 credits)
    
The total credit value of your chosen optional modules must not exceed 65 credits.
    
The &lsquo;Leadership in change management&rsquo; module is taught at the Faculty of Health, Social Care and Education, Kingston University and St George's, University of London. All other modules are taught at King's College London.
     
   
   FORMAT AND ASSESSMENT
  The programme assessments are practical and have been designed to help you think about how to develop an effective health intervention. For example, you will be asked to prepare a poster; produce a presentation on a project you have designed to improve health services or health outcomes; and you will undertake an empirical study within a health setting for your dissertation.