STRUCTURE OVERVIEW
     
  Core programme content
   All students study the following core modules:
Academic English Skills for Pre-Master's Students
The aim of this module is to improve your communicative English ability in an academic setting. You will practise and develop your listening, speaking, reading and writing skills as well as improving your grammar, vocabulary knowledge and pronunciation. This module will concentrate on the following specific areas:
Essay writing   critical thinking
Reading academic texts effectively
Research skills
Discussion   presentation skills
Examination techniques  
Listening   note-taking  skills.
  
Culture, Theory   Society
The aim of this module is to introduce you to key debates and perspectives on the contemporary issues that you will be expected to be familiar with when you start your graduate degree. It will also introduce you to the concepts of critical thinking and the evaluative expectations of a UK university environment. 
The module covers topics which have been chosen for their universal relevance, but also in recognition that there is often a British institutional narrative that you need to be aware of and able to discuss before you can successfully put your thoughts and argumentation into convincing and credible analysis. The debate will be supplemented by an introduction to theoretical standpoints that you are likely to encounter in your future degree. 
This module will also help you become more familiar with the university lecture &ndash; seminar system and help you understand typical academic assessment frameworks. These will be combined with a development of study skills to complement the core academic programme. Term one is used as a foundation term to introduce key concepts that are then expanded and developed in terms two and three.
     
   Indicative non-core content
   Students all choose from one of the following optional modules:
Business Management with Integrated Study Skills
Europe   the World: Politics, Economy   Society with  Integrated Study Skills
Law  with  Integrated Study Skills

Please note that the above modules aim to give you practice in developing your linguistic and academic skills within your chosen subject focus. They will not act as a top-up academic qualification, therefore it is your responsibility to ensure that you fulfil the academic entry requirements of the graduate programme you intend to pursue.
     
   
   FORMAT AND ASSESSMENT
  Lectures and seminars; academic English classes; assessment by coursework essays, oral presentations and unseen examinations.