STRUCTURE OVERVIEW
     
  Core programme content
   All students take the following three compulsory modules in semester 1:
International  Studies   Integrated Study Skills
Individual Research Project
Academic English.

Students then choose from a range of optional modules for the second semester of the first year. 
In semester 2, students continue with the Individual Research Project and Academic English modules. Students progressing onto MA/MSc programmes run by the Department of War Studies or Department of Political Economy take the following optional module:
Issues in International Politics.

Students progressing onto MA/MSc or PhD programmes run by the Department of Geography take two additional optional modules from the following:
Third World Political Ecology
Tropical Forests in a Changing Environment
Landscape Ecology
Japanese Environments
Global Environmental Problems   Policies
Urban Governance   Regeneration
Gendered Geographies of Development   Globalisation
Environmental Risk, Governance   Society
Social Theory   the Environment
Advanced Natural Hazards.

     
   Indicative non-core content
   Please refer to http://www.kcl.ac.uk/schools/sspp/ws/grad/programmes/int/content.html
     
   
   FORMAT AND ASSESSMENT
  Lecture and seminar classes, supported by integrated academic English tutorials in semester 1; individual supervision for the research project; assessment by dissertation, coursework essays, oral presentations and unseen examinations.
   
   MODULES
   More information on typical programme modules.
   NB it cannot be guaranteed that all modules are offered in any particular academic year.
      Academic english - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
4LEC1234    
  
    Credit level:  
4  
    Credit value:  
30    
    
      Semester:  
    Full-year      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  Module description not yet available
  
    Individual Research Project- International Studies - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
6SSW3015    
  
    Credit level:  
6  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  This module allows students to research a topic of their choice within the field of their specialist MA, and to present their findings within an extended essay. This allows students to tailor the programme to their individual specialism and provides invaluable experience that will assist with the research and writing of the MA dissertation in the second year.
 Students receive generic classes in associated research skills, such as interview techniques, as well as individual supervision by an appropriate academic from the School of Social Sciences   Public Policy. The projects are used as the basis for formal oral presentations and students are given dedicated academic English and skills support to improve their ability and confidence in these areas. 

 The principal aims of this module are to:
Allow students to undertake in-depth independent research on a chosen aspect of War Studies, Geography or Public Policy, depending on which MA programme they have been provisionally accepted for the following year;
Improve students&rsquo; understanding of, and ability to use, academic English appropriately and effectively within a research context;
Ensure students have the appropriate range of language and academic skills (especially research and independent writing skills) required for successful MA study in the departments of War Studies, Geography or Public Policy (KISPP).

 The module will be taught through three parallel methods: 
a weekly one hour class run by appropriate staff from War Studies, Geography, Public Policy or the English Language Centre
an online dissertation training course
one-to-one supervision by an appropriate academic from War Studies, Geography   or Public Policy.

  
    International Studies   Integrated Study Skills - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
6SSW3016    
  
    Credit level:  
6  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  This module introduces students to key academic areas associated with the fields of   international relations and social policy. This   allows students to gain a broad preliminary and multidisciplinary understanding of the fields of War Studies, Geography and Public Policy.
It looks at the major issues   connected   to  international studies from a variety of different perspectives, such as international relations, geography, environmental studies, globalisation, political economy, military history, strategic theory, policy analysis, risk analysis, disaster management, urban studies, political ecology , literary and philosophical approaches, and scientific viewpoints.   
As well as encouraging a broad understanding of these very diverse approaches to the central theme of international studies, the module aims to foster and develop academic English skills and critical thinking and debate in line with Western academic tradition.   To achieve this, the weekly lecture and seminar are supported by wrap-round study skills support, delivered by the English Language Centre. These sessions focus on improving your ability to engage effectively in debate, to absorb specialist literature, to use information and communication technologies, and to construct fluent and well structured essays.
For more detailed module content, please see the programme's homepage http://www.kcl.ac.uk/schools/sspp/ws/grad/programmes/int/

  
     
  
    
    
    
    
   
    
    
    
    
  
  
  
  
    
      Issues in International Politics - Optional

    
  
      
     Module code:  
TBC    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
    
  
  
      
   
    
  
       
    
     
  This module allows students to gain a more specific understanding of the issues in War Studies and Political Economy while familiarizing students with the British academic approach. Assessment is by one 4,000 word assessed essay (60%), and by an unseen examination (40%)

The principal aims of this module are to:
Provide students with an in-depth knowledge and critical understanding of a range of War Studies and Political Economy issues;
Ensure students have the appropriate range of academic skills (especially critical analysis) required for successful MA study in the departments of War Studies and Political Economy.