STRUCTURE OVERVIEW
     
  Core programme content
   Core module:
Dissertation
Compulsory modules (Semester 1):
Medieval Textual Cultures
Visual and Verbal in Medieval Culture

     
   Indicative non-core content
   Option modules
Students take two option modules in Semester 2. Recommended options include:
Middle English Textual Cultures
The Arthurian Tradition in Literature and History
Books and Bodies
Students may also choose from a wide range of option modules offered on other English Department MA Programmes, or modules from other departments in the School (subject to agreement by the programme leader).
NB The above is an indicative list only. For further information on the programme structure  and modules, see: http://www.kcl.ac.uk/artshums/depts/english/study/handbook/programmes/pgt/medeng.aspx

     
   
   FORMAT AND ASSESSMENT
  Taught core and optional modules assessed by coursework plus a compulsory dissertation.
   
   MODULES
   More information on typical programme modules.
   NB it cannot be guaranteed that all modules are offered in any particular academic year.
      Medieval Sex, Gender And Culture: - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7AAEM646    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
    Credit value:  
30    
    
      Semester:  
    Semester 1 (autumn)      
   
    Teaching pattern:  
1 two-hour seminar weekly  
  
      Assessment:  
      coursework     
   
    
    
      One bibliographical assignment (unassessed); 1 x 6,000 word essay or equivalent assignment
     
  This module offers an advanced introduction to methods and skills used in the research of the medieval period (c. 500&ndash;1550). It addresses Old and Middle English writings, using translations where necessary, and it also draws on medieval Latin and European culture more widely. The module provides training in two key areas: first, you will acquire primary research and bibliographical skills (where to look for what); and second, you will develop a knowledge of critical debates and methodologies (who said what, when, and why). We will explore the core areas of medieval sexuality, gender and cultural studies with reference to the following disciplinary, theoretical and interpretive issues: textual culture and editorial practice; visual culture; translation; periodization; canon formation; historical and documentary culture; religious culture.
http://www.kcl.ac.uk/artshums/depts/english/modules/2011-12/level7/pgtmods.aspx

  
     
  
    
    
    
    
   
    
    
    
    
  
  
  
  
    
      Prison Writing: An English and European Tradition - Optional

    
  
      
     Module code:  
7AAEM201    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
    
  
  
      
   
    
  
       
    
     
  This module examines the literary works of writers in prison. We shall explore ideas of the writer as hero in a European intellectual tradition with examples drawn from Antiquity to the present. All texts may be read in English but a reading knowledge of French would be invaluable for some poetic examples.