STRUCTURE OVERVIEW
     
  Core programme content
   Please see the modules list for further information.
     
   Indicative non-core content
   Please see the modules list for further information.

     
   
   FORMAT AND ASSESSMENT
  The programme includes a 10-week laboratory experimental training period in fundamental research techniques required for biomedical and molecular biological scientists. In addition, workshops will focus on transferable and specialist technical skills which are complemented with lectures detailing recent advances in cardiovascular biology, neurobiology, molecular genetics, biochemistry and molecular biology. Assessments take the form of written examinations, workshop reports, practical write-ups, a research project, poster and oral presentations.
Finally, you will undertake a 6 month (MSc) or 9 month (MRes) laboratory-based research project within a research team. Research projects are offered by over 50 approved research active laboratories spread across the Faculty of Life Sciences   Medicine to capture a comprehensive scope of topics to suit a wide range of career aspirations.
   
   MODULES
   More information on typical programme modules.
   NB it cannot be guaranteed that all modules are offered in any particular academic year.
      Advanced Biosciences Research Laboratory Techniques - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7BBBM106    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  By the end of this module students should be able to:
Understand and follow written experimental instructions, identify key issues and prepare summaries for multi-step experimental procedures
Carry out advanced biochemistry and molecular biology experiments, analyse, present, and interpret results
Safely use instruments found in typical bioscience laboratories
Apply confidence criteria to their results, including reproducibility and accuracy estimates
Prepare experimental reports of laboratory experiments
Prepare discussion material and be prepared to relate results to published material
Describe the outcome of work done and identify the key elements in a typical procedure
Collect data and apply statistical analysis methods
Identify safety issues in a laboratory environment.

  
    Dissertation In Biomedical And Molecular Sciences - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7BBBM113    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
      Assessment:  
      written examination/s     
   
    
    
    
     
  The module provides a research project in laboratories of experienced and leading researchers that will be conducted over a period of 6 months (MSc) or 9 months (MRes). The student will benefit from one-to-one teaching and learn to develop skills in laboratory practice, designing and conducting experiments, collecting and analysing results, discussing the meaning of the data obtained, critically evaluating the data in terms of the broader picture of work in the area, organising time and managing a lab book on a day-to-day basis. The student will acquire deep knowledge through the reading of primary literature relevant to their research project. This will enable the student to compile a comprehensive written report of their research findings.
At the end of the project students should be able to:
Design and carry out appropriate experiments to test a hypothesis
Interpret results and summarise main findings (conclusions)
Carry out statistical analysis on data
Synthesise a large body of literature and in combination with the results acquired through independent research compile a large report consisting of abstract, introduction, materials and methods, results, discussion, conclusion and a correctly annotated bibliography.Present the report in a scientific format, including the correct presentation of figures and tables
  
At the end of the project and assessment phases students should have developed research skills to a postgraduate standard.

  
    Skills in Biomedical and Molecular Research - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7BBBM112    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  The course consists of developing presentation skills and laboratory performance competency necessary for a research career in biomedical sciences. In detail the module will:
Develop oral presentation skills via two journal club presentations and a final oral presentation of their research project.
Develop communication and visual presentation skills via an interactive poster session.
Develop laboratory skills within an active research environment.
By the end of the module students should have the ability to:
Present clearly their research via an oral presentationpresent clearly their research via a poster presentation
Critically discuss their research with other scientiststime manage experimental designbe technically competent and conduct independent research in the laboratory.
Develop problem solving and trouble shooting skills.

  
    Specialised Techniques Workshops In Biomedical And Molecular Sciences - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7BBBM108    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  The module aims to teach specialised technical skills in bioscience disciplines, relevant to students' research projects and aims to equip students with particular skills that cannot be easily taught, hands-on, in large classes: for example electron microscopy, in situ
 hybridization, in vivo
 electrophysiology, brain perfusion, real time PCR, and microarrays. There are over 25 workshops to  choose from.    
  
    Topics In Biomedical Sciences - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7BBBM109    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  By the end of the course students should have:
A  consolidated knowledge of the key areas and recent developments in cardiovascular biology, neurobiology, genetics and biochemistry and molecular biology
An advanced knowledge in areas of current interest to biomedicine and biosciences
The ability to prepare and present critical reports on topics of interest
Critical awareness of current  and emerging tools employed by researchers in biomedicine and the biosciences
Developed their methods of preparing written and oral presentations associated with ideas and topics
The ability to apply good laboratory practice codes and be able to complete COSHH forms