STRUCTURE OVERVIEW
     
  Core programme content
   Please see the modules list below for a basic description of each of the modules, which are studied in the following order:    
Principles of Analytical Toxicology
Biochemical Toxicology
Clinical   Forensic Toxicology
Advanced Analytical Toxicology
Analytical Research Project.

Follow this link for  a complete guide to module content
, which can also be found under the Further Information tab, Further Literature section.

     
   
   FORMAT AND ASSESSMENT
  Four taught modules, providing a firm theoretical and practical (laboratory) training in specialist skills. Also an in-depth laboratory-based research project. The assessment of the taught modules is by written examination paper and coursework (practical reports, case studies, poster and oral presentations, essays). The research project is judged on the basis of a written report, poster presentation and mini viva voce.
   
   MODULES
   More information on typical programme modules.
   NB it cannot be guaranteed that all modules are offered in any particular academic year.
      Advanced Analytical Toxicology - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7BBFA009    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  This highly practical module will provide you with an in-depth understanding of sample handling, immunoassay, techniques, on-site and point of care testing for drugs and alcohol, as well as the latest mass spectrometry instrumentation.
 Topics include: 
 Advanced sample handling, including consideration of matrices, solid phase extraction and microextraction
 On-site testing for drugs and alcohol, including near patient testing devices as used in roadside testing
 Mass spectrometry techniques and instrumentation

 Practicals and workshops give hands-on experience to learn the key  elements of sample extraction, immunoassay, on-site testing, and mass spectrometry.
  
    Analytical Toxicology Research Project - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7BBFA010    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  All students will carry out a relevant supervised project to develop research skills and detailed understanding of a specific technique. Wherever possible, this will be at an external clinical or external forensic laboratory. We realise that for some students, an external placement may be difficult and if this is the case, internal placements within King&rsquo;s College London may be found, for example, within the Drug Control Centre.
  
    Biochemical Toxicology - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7BBFA007    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  This module provides an understanding of the fundamental principles of drug absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion. It also covers elementary pharmacokinetics, mechanisms and principles of toxicology and pharmacogenetics relating to drug development and safety evaluation. Students will learn how to interpret and integrate a broad range of toxicological information, and apply their skills in the assessment of actual and potential acute or chronic drug toxicity. In addition, this module also addresses the toxicological assessment of a number of important chemical poisons, including heavy metals and pesticides.
 Topics include: 
Chemistry for biologists and biology for chemists
Anatomy and physiology, including an introduction to clinical biochemistry
Pharmacological classification and drug action
Drug absorption, distribution and elimination
Xenobiotic biotransformation
Functionalisation reactions
Conjugation reactions
Factors affecting drug metabolism
Pharmacokinetics and pharmacokinetic parameters
Intravenous and oral drug administration
Multiple dosing
Principles of toxicology and toxic response
Toxicokinetics
Specific examples of drug toxicity

  
    Clinical And Forensic Toxicology - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7BBFA008    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  This module provides an in-depth understanding of common drugs and chemical poisons relevant to both clinical and forensic toxicology.
A strong emphasis is placed is on the application of modern analytical methods to the measurement of drugs, chemical poisons and their metabolites in biological fluids in both a clinical and medicolegal context. The emphasis of this module is to integrate aspects of clinical pharmacology, drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics, with extensive use of both clinical and forensic case reports concerning suspected poisoning and drug misuse. This module will include data evaluation, report preparation and presentation, tutorials and workshops.
Topics include: 
Drug misuse, poisoning and its epidemiology
The clinical management of poisoning
The clinical and forensic toxicology of alcohol, methanol, amphetamines, cannabis and cannabinoids, cocaine, opiates and opoids, including laboratory techniques used in  the investigation of abuse, overdose or intoxication
Newer drugs such as GHB, ketamine and piperazines
Benzodiazepines and related hypnotic drugs
Psychotropic drugs
Pesticides
Non-opoid analgesics such as paracetamol and aspirin
Cardiovascular agents, including beta blockers, antiarrhythmic agents and digoxin
Metallic poisons, including arsenic, lead, mercury and thallium
Therapeutic drug monitoring
Drugs in sport
Poisonous plants and herbal medicines
Fire deaths related to suspected carbon monoxide and cyanide poisoning

The module also covers the role of laboratory investigations in the diagnosis and management of suspected poisoning or sudden or unexpected deaths, best practice in techniques applied and their application to patient care and the medico-legal aspects of drug abuse and poisoning. 
Workshop topics include: 
Post-mortem toxicology
Paediatric clinical and forensic toxicology
Forensic issues relating to drugs and alcoholrelated criminal cases
The practical forensic aspects of blood and urine alcohol measurement

  
    Principles Of Analytical Toxicology - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7BBFA006    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  An introduction to the major chromatographic, spectroscopic and spectrometric techniques applied to analytical toxicology, the instrumentation used and the scientific principles underlying the instrumentation. Students will be tutored on applying the appropriate analytical techniques for different sample types and cases, bearing in mind the advantages and disadvantages of each method, as well as specimen collection, preservation, storage and documentation.
 Topics include: 
Immunochemical techniques
Chromatography; spectroscopy and spectrometry
Mathematics for analysts
Auality assurance
Specimen  preparation and extraction

 A series of practicals, workshops and tutorials include: 
Chemometrics (calculations for analysts)
Laboratory skills including health and safety, pipette skills and volumetric work
Gas chromatography
High performance liquid chromatography
Specimen collection, preservation and storage, chain of custody and documentation of specimens