STRUCTURE OVERVIEW
     
  Core programme content
   Please see the module list for details.
     
   Indicative non-core content
   Please see the module list for details.
     
   
   FORMAT AND ASSESSMENT
  Laboratory-based research, chosen from a range of research topics available within the research laboratories of the Randall Division of Cell and Molecular Biophysics, will be written up in the form of a dissertation, presented as a seminar and examined by viva (100 per cent).
   
   MODULES
   More information on typical programme modules.
   NB it cannot be guaranteed that all modules are offered in any particular academic year.
      Advanced Biosciences Research Laboratory Techniques - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7BBBM106    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  By the end of this module students should be able to:
Understand and follow written experimental instructions, identify key issues and prepare summaries for multi-step experimental procedures
Carry out advanced biochemistry and molecular biology experiments, analyse, present, and interpret results
Safely use instruments found in typical bioscience laboratories
Apply confidence criteria to their results, including reproducibility and accuracy estimates
Prepare experimental reports of laboratory experiments
Prepare discussion material and be prepared to relate results to published material
Describe the outcome of work done and identify the key elements in a typical procedure
Collect data and apply statistical analysis methods
Identify safety issues in a laboratory environment.

  
    Molecular Biophysics Research Project - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7BBBM111    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  The student selects from one of around 15 different projects which are offered by faculty members of the Randall Division of Cell and Molecular Biophysics
and the Biophysics group on the Waterloo campus. The topics are in laboratories using NMR in solution and solid state, X-ray crystallography of a wide range of proteins, protein-protein and protein-DNA complexes, fluorescence microscopy and spectroscopy, solution biophysical techniques applied to the study of molecules in the immune system. Excellent, recently newly equipped core facilities are available in all aspects of biophysics.

The project is of  seven months' duration and is written up as a 15,000 word dissertation.
  
    Principles of Advanced Biophysical Techniques (MRes) - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7BBBM110    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  At the end of the module, the student studying the project will be well versed in structural biology, fluorescence microscopy, analytical ultracentrifugation, SPR, and circular dichroism techniques, and will be able to clone, express, purify and handle proteins of interest.