STRUCTURE OVERVIEW
     
  Core programme content
   100 credits of required modules:
Compulsory History of Science, Technology and Medicine (HSTM) team-taught, programme-specific compulsory module that explores the development of STM, its implications for history in general, and the historiographical and methodological issues that arise in studying it.
Includes a 15,000 word dissertation worth 60 credits (details below).
Part-time students take the 40 credit required module in Year 1 and the dissertation module worth 60 credits in Year 2.

     
   Indicative non-core content
   Students can choose 80 credits from a wide range of optional modules, typically including:
Medicine, Modernity and the Body
Science, Medicine and American Film
Materialities and Modernities, 1900-2000
Experts, Inventions and Machines in 20th Century Britain
From Farm to Fork: Food in Modern Britain
Body And Society In Early Modern Europe
From Hume to Darwin: God, Man, and Nature in European Thought
London Histories of Medicine and Science
Climate: Science and History
Science, Technology and Global History
History of Science and Technology in India
Communications in Modern Europe

For module descriptions, please see the Department website
.
Also students may take a 20 credit language module, either as part of or in addition to their 80 credits of optional modules. Alternatively, the Modern Language Centre at King's offers evening language classes to students which do not count towards the degree.
Part-time students take 40 credits of optional modules in Year 1 and 40 credits of optional modules in Year 2.
     
   
   FORMAT AND ASSESSMENT
  Full-time study:  four to eight  hours of taught classes per week.
Part-time study: two to six  hours of taught classes per week.
The taught compulsory and optional modules are assessed by coursework and/or take-home examination. The compulsory 15,000 word dissertation enables students to research a topic of their choice, working one-to-one with an academic supervisor.