STRUCTURE OVERVIEW
     
  Core programme content
   Science of behavioural management and Conscious Sedation.
Clinical Conscious Sedation for Dentistry.
Project  

     
   
   FORMAT AND ASSESSMENT
  Modular programme comprising 120 credits, as follows: Scientific Basis of Conscious Sedation, examined by written and MCQ examination; Clinical Conscious Sedation, involving supervised clinical practice and examined by a mixture of case studies on treated and unseen patients, practical and oral examinations; submission of a literature review, with an oral defence of the literature. Attendance at Guy's Campus one day per week and study days covering the main modules.
   
   MODULES
   More information on typical programme modules.
   NB it cannot be guaranteed that all modules are offered in any particular academic year.
      Clinical Conscious Sedation - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7NSSSS02    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  At the end of the module you will be able to undertake the following tasks relevant to the practice of Conscious Sedation: Undertake diagnosis and treatment planning; Take appropriate responsibility; Solve complex clinical problems; Perform clinical procedures; Manage effectively patients, resources and time; Communicate effectively with patients, colleagues and dental technicians; Develop appropriate computer skills; Perform good clinical governance; Ability to reflect critically on ones own clinical work. Assessment is by a clinical examination
  
    Conscious Sedation For Dentistry Research - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7NSSSS03    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  This module provides students with literature search experience and writing a literature review.
At the end of the module, the student will be able to:
Analyse both scientific and clinical data
Critically review the relevant scientific literature  
Carry out a literature review
Devise and support arguments for oral health
Present their work both orally and in writing

Assessment is by submission of a literature review and oral examination.

  
    Science Of Conscious Sedation - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7NSSSS01    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  This module aims to produce a highly knowledgeable professional in Conscious Sedation at diploma level. At the end of the course, you will be able to demonstrate advanced knowledge and deep understanding of the scientific basis of conscious sedation. Students will also be able to form concepts of oral health and reflect critically on ones own academic work. Assessment is by one written examination and clinical examinations.