STRUCTURE OVERVIEW
     
  Core programme content
     Core module:
Dissertation

     
   Indicative non-core content
   Compulsory modules
Working with Early Modern Literary Texts &ndash; taught at King&rsquo;s
Early Modern Playhouse Practice: The Spaces, the Companies, the Business &ndash; taught at Shakespeare&rsquo;s Globe
Staging Shakespeare in Early Modern Playhouses: Actors, Audiences and the Experience of Theatre-Going &ndash; taught at Shakespeare&rsquo;s Globe
Option modules
Students take one option module. Recommended options may include:
Theatre, Gender and Culture in Jacobean London
Global/Local Shakespeares
Professing Writing in Early Modern England
Prison Writing
Flatter and Fawn: Early Modern Drama and the Court
Students may also choose from a wide range of option modules offered on other English Department MA Programmes, or modules from another departments in the School (subject to agreement by the programme leader).
NB: This is an indicative list only. For further information can be found on the Department of English modules page
.
     
   
   FORMAT AND ASSESSMENT
  Taught compulsory and optional courses assessed by coursework and/or examination plus a dissertation.
   
   MODULES
   More information on typical programme modules.
   NB it cannot be guaranteed that all modules are offered in any particular academic year.
      Early Modern Playhouse Practice: The Spaces, the Companies, the Business (taught By Shakespeare's Globe) - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7AAEM222    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  This module examines the origins and conditions of early modern performance by exploring the material, social and economic contexts of the London theatre industry. Its focus will be on touring, documents of performance and the development of the repertory theatre companies of the 16th and 17th centuries. The design, architecture and operations of the Elizabethan and Jacobean playhouses (outdoors and indoors) will provide a framework for understanding how and why theatre was produced during the period between 1576 and 1642. The impact of these buildings and playing conditions upon the development of the dramatic text will be a key consideration of this module. The Globe Theatre and the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse, as primary learning tools, will provide students with the opportunity to investigate the material fabric and social meaning of early modern theatres.
The overall aim of this module is to develop an understanding of the material, social and economic contexts in which Shakespeare was sharer, house-holder and playwright in the Lord Chamberlain&rsquo;s/King&rsquo;s Men and in so doing interrogate the practical and theoretical methods scholars use to recover evidence about playhouse practice.

  
    Working with Early Modern Literary Texts - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7AAEM641    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  This course makes students aware of the various forms of &lsquo;publication&rsquo; through which early modern literary texts reached their target audience. Special emphasis is placed on the connotations, advantages and limitations associated with the medium of their transmission (manuscript, print, performance) and the influence of the &lsquo;three houses&rsquo; &ndash; the great house (aristocratic patronage), the playhouse (the rise of commercial drama) and the printing house (the book trade and the rise of a literary market) &ndash; on their composition, their reception in the early modern period and their legacy for the modern reader/spectator.

Each class will focus on specific study-cases, which may vary from year to year, depending on staff research interest and availability. A representative list of dramatic texts may include Shakespeare&rsquo;s Hamlet, King Lear and Henry VIII, Middleton&rsquo;s Hengist, King of Kent; Or, The Mayor of Queenborough, Middleton and Rowley&rsquo;s The Changeling, and Ford&rsquo;s &rsquo;Tis Pity She&rsquo;s a Whore. Particular attention will also be paid to a range of early modern poets, including Edmund Spenser, Philip Sidney and Shakespeare.