STRUCTURE OVERVIEW
     
  Core programme content
   Fundamentals of Ultrasound Practice (unless a qualified sonographer).
Negotiated Learning with Clinical Proficiency.

     
   Indicative non-core content
   The Negotiated Learning module can be taken as a stand-alone module for sonographers who are already qualified, to gain academic credits in a proficiency based topic that will advance their practice. Alternatively other professionals may study the Negotiated Learning with Clinical Proficiency and Fundamentals of Ultrasound modules to gain a CASE accredited PG Certificate. They may subsequently add further modules to achieve the PG Diploma or MSc in Medical Ultrasound.
     
   
   FORMAT AND ASSESSMENT
  This involves a mix of classroom and work based learning. The Negotiated Learning topic requires the demonstration of ultrasound scanning proficiency and this is assessed.
   
   MODULES
   More information on typical programme modules.
   NB it cannot be guaranteed that all modules are offered in any particular academic year.
      Fundamentals Of Ultrasound Practice - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7MWOUL01    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      Semester:  
    Full-year      
   
    
  
      Assessment:  
      practical/s     
   
    
    
      The assessment for this module involves an essay, a practical equipment folder and a written examination.
     
  This module aims to equip students with the scientific and technical knowledge required for ultrasound scanning and to increase their awareness of professional issues related to ultrasound scanning.
  
    Negotiated Learning With Clinical Competence In Ultrasound - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7MWOUL16    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  This module involves the negotiation of specific learning outcomes in ultrasound that are competency based and will be embedded in a personal development plan negotiated between the student, the university tutor and the student&rsquo;s workplace mentor.   Depending on the student's topic they may be required to attend lectures with other student groups (e.g. EP   gynae students would attend relevant sessions within the O G module) Students may be:
clinicians who wish to use a focused area of ultrasound in their practice (e.g. a stroke physician wishing to study carotid ultrasound).  With successful completion of Fundamentals of Ultrasound they would achieve the PG Cert.
obstetricians and midwives who wish to study ultrasound beyond the PG Cert by extending their scanning skills within O G ultrasound
experienced, qualified sonographers extending their proficiency in a specialist area. This will give them the opportunity to study and gain academic credit for their area of extended clinical competence.