STRUCTURE OVERVIEW
     
  Core programme content
   GC1 - Advanced engagement skills (30 credits).

     
   Indicative non-core content
   Optional modules:
GC2 - Specific interventions (30 credits)
GC3 - Specific interventions for delusions and voices (30 credits)
GC4 - Working with young people who have psychosis or unusual experiences and their carers (30 credits).

     
   
   FORMAT AND ASSESSMENT
  Assessment will be assessed role play and examination.
   
   MODULES
   More information on typical programme modules.
   NB it cannot be guaranteed that all modules are offered in any particular academic year.
      GC1: Advanced engagement skills - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
6PAHGGC1    
  
    Credit level:  
6  
    Credit value:  
30    
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
      Assessment is by a videoed role play and an examination.
     
  The module provides specialist training in the skills to competently engage clients with psychosis, and their carers &ndash; focusing on understanding difficulties from a cognitive behavioural perspective and engaging under more difficult circumstances &ndash; for example when carers are distressed or when clients have very strongly held beliefs, or incorporate the therapist into their beliefs. Structured assessment and the effective use of assessment measures is also covered.
  
    GC2: Specific Interventions - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
6PAHGGC2    
  
    Credit level:  
6  
    Credit value:  
30    
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
      Assessment is by a videoed role play and an examination.
     
  The module provides specialist training in brief interventions for people with psychosis and their carers. Students will be taken through the treatment rationale and evidence base, and then work through the therapy manual and practice interventions with both groups. Students will be taught how to evaluate the effectiveness of their work.