STRUCTURE OVERVIEW
     
  Core programme content
   Students study two compulsory modules, Advanced Qualitative Research Methods
 and Advanced Quantitative Research Methods
.  These 30 credit modules provide opportunity to study research methodologies in depth. Students also select optional module(s) to gain an additional 30 credits. A full list of optional modules will be provided when students enrol. Optional modules are available from throughout King&rsquo;s Health Schools, including Biomedical Sciences, Medicine, Nursing and Midwifery and the Institute of Psychiatry. Recent students have studied a wide variety of courses, including Evidence Based Decision-Making in Health Care
 and Advanced Assessment Skills for Non Medical Practitioners
 (offered by FNSNM), Cognitive Behavioural Therapy
 (offered by IoP), Skeletal Muscle Function, Fatigue and Plasticity - Movement to Molecules
 (offered by Physiotherapy), Health Economics and Health Policy
 and Basic Epidemiology and Statistics
(offered by Medicine).
The programme culminates in the conduct of a substantial research project (90 credits) with one to one supervision and group seminar support. The research project is 15,000 words, and you will also be required to submit a draft 3,000 word publication.
     
   
   FORMAT AND ASSESSMENT
  Assessment is through examination and coursework.
   
   MODULES
   More information on typical programme modules.
   NB it cannot be guaranteed that all modules are offered in any particular academic year.
      Advanced Qualitative Research Methods - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7KNIP036    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  Advanced Qualitative Research Methods.
  
    Advanced Quantitative Research Methods - Required

   
      
  
    
      
     Module code:  
7KNIP042    
  
    Credit level:  
7  
      
    
      
   
    
  
       
   
    
    
    
     
  Advanced quantitative research methods.