STRUCTURE OVERVIEW
     
  Core programme content
   Introduction to Dental Public Health
Principles of Epidemiology
Research Methods
Social and Behavioural Sciences as Applied to Medicine and Dentistry
Oral Health Promotion   Education
Planning and Evaluation for Oral HealthDental
Public Health Research Project

     
   Indicative non-core content
   NB it cannot be guaranteed that all modules are offered in any particular academic year.
Introduction to Dental Public Health - Required
Module code: 7NPHPH01
Credit level: 7
This 20 credit module aims to provide students with an overview of the principles, philosophy and strategies underpinning the practice of Dental Public Health and to provide students with an understanding of the structure of health care systems and the drivers of change within a system. At the end of the module, you will be able to: demonstrate a detailed systematic knowledge, critical awareness and application of the main principles and strategies in dental public health; and discuss the principles of the primary health care approach, how they are evidenced in practice and their use as a strategy for the organisation of oral health care services. Assessment is by coursework and written examination.
Principles of Epidemiology - Required
Module code: 7NPHPH02
Credit level: 7
This 20 credit module aims to provide students with basic epidemiological tools for the design, analysis and interpretation of oral health studies, and comprehensive knowledge of the epidemiological aspects related to common oral diseases (indices, examination protocols and disease patterns). At the end of the module, you will be able to: describe and apply the basic principles and methods of epidemiology; design epidemiological studies to address research questions in clinical and public health dentistry; and develop a protocol for the implementation of an oral health survey in a given population. Assessment is by coursework and written examination.
Research Methods - Required
Module code: 7NPHPH03
Credit level: 7
This 20 credit module aims to equip students with practical skills for the appraisal of research evidence, for the design and conduct of research using quantitative and qualitative methods, and for the management, analysis and interpretation of data using statistical computing software. At the end of the modules, you will be able to: find existing evidence relevant to research questions in clinical and public health dentistry; become a critical reader of dental literature by analysing the appropriateness of study design, quality of data, methodological strategies, and interpretation of results; and produce a scientifically valid, ethical and feasible research proposal. Assessment is by coursework and written examination.
Social and Behavioural Sciences as Applied to Medicine and Dentistry - Required
Module code: 7NPHPH04
Credit level: 7
This 20 credit module aims to provide students with an introduction to psychology and sociology and their application to medicine and dentistry. At the end of the module, you will be able to: identify ways in which changes in behaviour and social structures may affect the health of populations; discuss theories underlying health behaviour in dental settings; and apply social and behavioural sciences theories to dental public health practices. Assessment is by coursework and written examination.
Oral Health Promotion   Education - Required
Module code: 7NPHPH05
Credit level: 7
This 20 credit module aims to provide an understanding of the issues which relate to formulating a preventive or health promoting dental strategy. At the end of the module, you will be able to: discuss the different theories and models underpinning the practice of health promotion; plan and evaluate disease prevention and health promoting strategies; and develop appropriate evidence-based approaches to prevention of oral diseases. Assessment is by coursework and written examination.
Planning and Evaluation for Oral Health - Required
Module code: 7NPHPH06
Credit level: 7
This 20 credit module aims for students to develop the ability to plan for the design, development, implementation, and evaluation of oral health programmes and services. At the end of the module, you will be able to: differentiate between normative and perceived approaches to assessing dental care needs; elaborate a situation analysis for a defined population for a specific purpose; and prepare a plan to address the oral health needs of a particular population, including goals and objectives, intervention activities, budget, timeline and evaluation plan. Assessment is by coursework and written examination.
Dental Public Health Research Project - Required
Module code: 7NPHPH07
Credit level: 7
This 60 credit module aims to enable students to investigate in great depth a topic within the field of dental public health and to write it up in a dissertation. At the end of the module you will be able to: design and undertake a research project; demonstrate an ability to critically review the literature and evaluate scientific data and research; Apply and interpret common statistical techniques to a variety of estimation and hypothesis testing situations, in accordance with underlying assumptions and type of study design; reflect on your own academic work; write in a scientific manner; and be familiar with use of information technology. Students will be encouraged to present their work at relevant scientific conferences. Assessment is by dissertation.
     
   
   FORMAT AND ASSESSMENT
  Modular programme consisting of 180 credits, as follows: two taught modules, assessed by written examination; one practical module, involving written, practical and oral examinations; one research module, involving the submission of a research project report including a literature review.