Currently, students study the following modules shown below. King's reviews its modules on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes and this list is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates, or contact the School/department for further advice.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  Eight compulsory modules. 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   Calculus I
Linear Methods
Numbers and Functions
Geometry I
Calculus II
Introduction to Abstract Algebra
Introduction to Dynamical Systems
Probablility and Statistics I   
    
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   Six compulsory modules, plus two options. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   Partial Differential Equations and Complex Variable
Analysis I
Linear Algebra
Probability and Statistics II   
      
  
  
  
 
 
   
  YEAR 2 OPTIONS
   Elementary Number Theory
Geometry of Surfaces
Groups and Symmetries 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   Three compulsory modules plus five optional moduies from an extensive list. 
     
   
  YEAR 3 CORE
   Currently, students study the following modules shown below. King's reviews its modules on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes and this list is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates, or contact the Faculty or department for further advice.
Statistical Interference
Time Series Analysis
Linear Models and Regression Analysis   
      
  YEAR 3 OPTIONS
   Currently, students study the following modules shown below. King's reviews its modules on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes and this list is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates, or contact the Faculty or department for further advice.
Representation Theory of Finite Groups
Statistics in Finance
Elements of Statistical Learning
Research Methods for the Public Services
Real Analysis II
Complex Analysis 
Topology
Special Relativity and Electromagnetism
Introductory Quantum Theory
Rings and Modules
Mathematical Finance I Discrete Time
Mathematical Theory of Collective Behaviour
Third Year Project
Numerical Methods
Theory of Complex Networks
Fourier Analysis
Galois Theory
Mathematical Finance II: Continuous Time
Elementary Number Theory
Mathematics Education and Communication
Space-Time Geometry and General Relativity