Currently, students study the following programme structure. King's reviews its programmes on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting learning opportunities and this information is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates
, or contact the School/department for further advice.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  Stage 1 Foundations of Medicine
Stage 1 will be covered over years 1 and 2
Stage 1 covers:
&bull; Foundations of Biomedical Science: Students learn the fundamental principles of anatomy and physiology of body systems, metabolism, communication within and between cells, molecular and cell biology, immunology and pharmacology
&bull; Biomedical Science: The students develop a deeper knowledge of biomedical sciences by practical work in anatomy supported by appropriate material concerning the functional anatomy, biochemistry and physiology of systems
&bull; Population Science and Quality Improvement: This introduces students to the structure of the Health Service in the UK and the role of organizations such as the GMC, BMA, medical Royal Colleges, NICE and MRC. Students are set on a learning path relating to the concepts of leadership, teamwork (including multi &ndash; disciplinary teamwork), and quality improvement.
&bull; Genes, Behaviour and Environment: There is an emphasis on learning about the complex interplay of genes, behaviours and the environment and the opportunities to work with patient and the public to modify risk. Students are set on the path of a patient-centred approach to medicine
&bull; Introduction to Clinical Skills and Communication: Students are introduced to basic skills of communication and clinical practice using simulated clinical environments and clinical skills. Patient educators are used to help students develop their confidence taking a history and undertaking a physical examination. Once students have demonstrated that they can be trusted to work with patients in a supervised environment, they are allowed to progress.
&bull; Doctor and Society: This covers the ethical and legal principles underpinning medical practice. Students explore the social contract between doctors and society and what it means to be a member of the medical profession. It also includes preparatory workshops on student health, wellbeing and resilience.
In addition, there is EMDP-specific material:
&bull; Chemistry
&bull; Numeracy
&bull; Pharmacology
&bull; Anatomy
&bull; Academic English
&bull; Enquiry-based learning
&bull; Science Communication
 
     
    
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   Stage 1 continued covering:
&bull; Biomedical Science:The students develop a deeper knowledge of biomedical sciences by practical work in anatomy supported by appropriate material concerning the functional anatomy, biochemistry and physiology of systems
&bull; Population Science and Quality Improvement: This introduces students to the structure of the Health Service in the UK and the role of organizations such as the GMC, BMA, medical Royal Colleges, NICE and MRC. Students are set on a learning path relating to the concepts of leadership, teamwork (including multi &ndash; disciplinary teamwork), and quality improvement.
&bull; Genes, Behaviour and Environment: There is an emphasis on learning about the complex interplay of genes, behaviours and the environment and the opportunities to work with patient and the public to modify risk. Students are set on the path of a patient-centred approach to medicine
&bull; Introduction to Clinical Skills and Communication: Students are introduced to basic skills of communication and clinical practice using simulated clinical environments and clinical skills. Patient educators are used to help students develop their confidence taking a history and undertaking a physical examination. Once students have demonstrated that they can be trusted to work with patients in a supervised environment, they are allowed to progress.
&bull; Doctor and Society: This covers the ethical and legal principles underpinning medical practice. Students explore the social contract between doctors and society and what it means to be a member of the medical profession. It also includes preparatory workshops on student health, wellbeing and resilience.
&bull; Student Selected Components: These are areas of study for which students are able to select the subject and which give additional opportunities to explore areas of interest to them in allied fields such as: modern languages, medical humanities and the Associateship of King&rsquo;s College
In addition, there is EMDP-specific material:
&bull; Academic English
&bull; EMDP-specific taught SSC or Language SSC
 
   
      
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   Stage 2: Principles of Clinical Practice
Stage 2 is covered during years 3 and 4 of the programme
Stage 2 provides greater emphasis on clinical practice and uses the experience of longitudinal placements and care pathways to integrate biomedical sciences, population sciences and generic clinical skills. It:
&bull; Longitudinal placements: these are designed to foster a whole-person approach to patient care. Student learn with a panel of patients or other service users in general practice, mental health or other care settings. The placements are designed to help students develop clinical, shared decision-making and patient advocacy capabilities.
&bull; Clinical Practice: Students are allocated to short clinical placements (typically 4 week blocks) organised around common patient care pathways. These opportunities to both develop generic clinical skills but also the ability to provide care for patients with common acute and long-term conditions. These common conditions provide the context for further integration of biomedical sciences and population sciences.
&bull; Diagnostics, Pathology and Therapeutics: Students learn to identify appropriate investigations and develop the capabilities to develop safe, effective and economic management plans. The course also covers the imaging sciences, microbiology, immunology, genetics, bio-engineering, pathology and pharmacology.
&bull; Biomedical Sciences: This builds on Stage 1 as students develop a deeper knowledge of biomedical sciences by practical work in anatomy and physiology relevant to their clinical placements.
&bull; Genes, Behaviour and Environment: This builds on stage 1 and relates genetics, behavioural sciences, microbiology, immunology, pathology, environmental sciences, population sciences to their clinical placements.
&bull; Population Science and Quality Improvement: Drawing upon their experiences on clinical placement experiences, students are expected to critically reflect on the factors that enhance patient experience, reduce the risk of error and improve outcomes.
&bull; Doctor and Society: This builds on stage 1 and helps students grow in self-awareness, develop their reflective practice skills, apply ethical and legal principles in medical practice and embed life-long learning skills.
 
     
     
   
   
     
      YEAR 4
   Stage 2: Principles of Clinical Practice continued
Year 4 offers the same Core Components as in Year 2 with the addition of
&bull; Doctor as teacher: covering educational theory and practice to support students in developing their confidence and competence as educators.
&bull; Tasters: these provide opportunities for students to explore possible career options.
&bull; Projects: these provide opportunites for students to develop teaching skills, quality improvement skills and a knowledge of global health
   
       
   
     
    YEAR 5
   An intercalated year can be taken at this point. This might include anatomy, biochemistry, computing for biologists, genetics, immunology, molecular biology, neuroscience, pathology, nutrition, pharmacology, physiology, psychology, as well as languages and humanities subjects.
Stage 3 Integrated Clinical Practice
Stage 3 is covered during years 5 and 6 of the programme
During Stage 3 students consolidate and develop their capabilities in a range of different settings and grow in confidence as they contribute, under direct supervision, to the care of patients in a range of different settings.
&bull; Clinical blocks: The clinical blocks include placements in mental health, child health, women&rsquo;s health, general practice, outpatients, elective care, emergency medicine and acute and critical care. They are designed to enable students to develop their capabilities in a range of settings so they can both manage both the acutely unwell patient and patients with long-term conditions. Mental health will be covered both as distinct block but also as a common thread to the other clinical placements to foster a whole-person approach to patient care.
&bull; Diagnostics, Pathology and Therapeutics: This builds on the module in Stage 2. Students are expected to develop focussed plans to confirm a diagnosis, contribute to the development of management plans that take account of co-morbidities.
&bull; Doctor and Society: This builds on stages 1 and and helps students to model professional attributes as they take increasing responsibility for patient care and their own learning.
&bull; Population Science and Quality Improvement: This focuses on the improvement of patient care in a range of different settings and include a live quality improvement project.
&bull; Global Health: This covers the global determinants of health and disease and variations in healthcare delivery and medical practice. It supports students with the preparation for their elective including the ethics of undertaking an elective in another country and the steps that need to be taken to safeguard one&rsquo;s own health.
 
       
  YEAR 5 CORE
   UG programme year sixStage 3 Integrated Clinical Practice continued
Year 6 offers the same Core Components as in Year 5 with the addition of
&bull; Electives: A final year elective offers students the opportunity to undertake an eight-week elective in the UK or abroad which will include a project, assessed on return.
&bull; Tasters: These are in a clinical setting and offer students the opportunity to explore possible career options.
&bull; Preparation for practice: The aim of this block is to train medical professionals who can be trusted to provide safe and effective patient care as a member of a multidisciplinary team and under supervision. This programme focuses on the generic roles and responsibilities of a F1 doctor to help facilitate a smooth transitional to work as an F1 doctor. Induction and additional shadowing opportunities are typically provided by employers/deaneries in the week prior to taking up an F1 post.