Currently, students study the following programme structure. King's reviews its programmes on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting learning opportunities and this information is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates
, or contact the School/department for further advice.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  Teaching will be delivered through lectures, case-based workshops, practicals and dissections. This is supplemented by small group tutorials, patient contact learning and communication and clinical skills in small groups.
There is particular emphasis on learning together with students from other health professions, and thereby to value the contribution made by the range of professionals contributing to the delivery of healthcare. 
     
    
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   Graduate/Professional Entry Programme students join, after their introductory first year, the third year (Phase 3) of the standard five year MBBS programme.
Clinical teaching is integrated across the major specialities concerned with diseases of the main body systems in adults, with an introduction to clinical pathology and therapeutics. You develop the skills of history-taking first learned in the clinical contact sessions in the second year, and begin to learn the basic skills of clinical examination, diagnostic reasoning, interpretation of pathological and radiological data and practical procedures such as venepuncture and basic resuscitation.
An introduction to clinical work is followed by three clinical attachments that combine intensive clinical contact with patients and consideration of the clinical sciences underpinning medicine. SSCs are undertaken for one day each week in the first two terms, and provide time to study in depth basic and clinical sciences, or a wide range of academic topics.
 
   
      
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   In Phase 4, during year 3, students build on the basic knowledge and skills developed during the previous years. There are three blocks of training:
&bull; Accident and emergency medicine, anaesthetics, orthopaedics, rheumatology, rehabilitation and neurology
&bull; Reproductive and sexual health, including obstetrics and gynaecology, breast medicine and neonatology
&bull; Health care of the elderly, child health and paediatrics, palliative care and dermatology.
As well as becoming familiar with the common diseases seen in these clinical areas, you will develop the special communication skills required for these groups of patients, and will gain an understanding of ethical issues and their application in the context of the sensitive areas that the management of these patients presents.
You will learn about the psychological and socio-economic circumstances of patients, particularly those who are more vulnerable and disadvantaged from age and dependency, and the role of the multi-disciplinary team in the care of dependent patients. There will be teaching in public health, epidemiology, pharmacology, therapeutics and the laboratory sciences as applied to the Year 3 specialities.
 
     
     
   
   
     
      
  YEAR 4 CORE
   The objectives of Year 4 are at a higher level to those of the rest of the programme. In the first three years you will have acquired knowledge and skills, and developed the appropriate professional attitudes that are essential for starting your career in medicine.
The prime objective of Year 4 will be to allow you to consolidate and apply this knowledge and to further develop your skills and attitudes so that you are ready for your pre-registration year. Thus, the emphasis in Year 4 is to develop the vocational qualities that a doctor should exhibit.
You will be required to demonstrate competence in the clinical skills appropriate to commencing work as a doctor. You will be expected to show professional attitudes in your work based on an informed understanding of ethical and professional issues. You will complete a series of clinical attachments in medicine, surgery, and general practice.
These attachments will be taken at hospitals throughout South East England, largely outside central London, and in General Practices within and outside London, and you will return to the main campuses for short periods of learning in topics such as informatics, communication skills, presentation and teaching skills, radiation protection and advanced resuscitation.
You will develop the skills you have learned in earlier years, and particular emphasis will be placed on clinical skills, time management, prioritising, problem analysis and solving, summarising and written communication. You will become a member of the care team, whether in primary care or in hospital, and will play an active role in the care team, linked to the work of other junior medical staff.