Currently, students study a choice of optional modules. King's reviews its options on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes and this list is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates, or contact the Department website for further advice. Throughout the three years of the programme, there is also the opportunity for students to take  modules at the Royal Academy of Music  as well as a certain number of modules in other Departments and thus profit from the excellent academic resources offered at King's.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  You take 120 credits of optional modules from the list. 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   There are no core modules.   
    
  
    
   
  YEAR 1 OPTIONS
   Musical Performance 
Musical Analysis
Techniques of Composition (harmony   counterpoint)
Issues   Topics in Music History
Music and Globalisation since 1900
Aural Training
Writing About Music   
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   You take 120 credits of optional modules from the list. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   There are no core modules.   
      
  
  
  
 
 
   
  YEAR 2 OPTIONS
   Musical Performance
Musical Analysis
Techniques of Composition (Fugue   19th-century Lieder)
Free Composition
History of Music modules- in any one academic session, several of the following will be offered: 
Introduction to Medieval Music I   II
Western Music   Race
Keyboard Music from JS Bach to Beethoven
Wagner
The Symphony from Berlioz to Mahler
Narrative   Lyricism in 19th-century Song
Musical Modernism since 1945
Music   Worship in England 1470-1605 
Performance Practice
Early Renaissance Music, 1420-1520
The Jazz Tradition: Fact or Fiction?
Italian Opera in the 19th Century 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   You can take 120 credits from the modules list below as well as from second year modules not already taken (see list in Year 2). 
     
   
  YEAR 3 CORE
   There are no core modules.   
      
  YEAR 3 OPTIONS
   Advanced Performance Studies (admission by audition)
Musical Performance III
Techniques of Composition III
Advanced Free Composition (admission by portfolio)
Dissertation
History of music modules- in any one academic session, several of the following will be on offer: 
Sacred Continental Polyphony between Josquin   Monteverdi
Music   Society in France 1789-1870
Mozart in Vienna
Performance Practice on Record
The Beethoven Myth
Opera and Reason
Origins of Twentieth Century Music
Gender and Sexuality in Indian Music
Introduction to 20th-century Opera
The Philosophy   Psychology of Musical Perception
Musical Quality   Musical Taste
The Broadway Musical from Showboat to West Side Story