In the first year of the Neuroscience MSci programme, students take a common set of modules which provide important grounding in many aspects of the biosciences. These modules cover basic principles of cell biology and neuroscience, chemistry and biochemistry, aspects of the form and function of tissues and organs and pharmacology. 
They therefore encompass the fundamental ideas and principles which will underpin all the neuroscience learning in the second and third year. A skills module covers a range of communication, analytical and numerical aspects of the biosciences, introductory tutorials specific to the Neuroscience students are also provided.
In the second year, all modules are compulsory, including a major neuroscience course, with anatomical and pharmacological aspects, developmental and molecular modules, and courses on the fundamentals of psychology and the philosophy underpinning theories of mind.
In the third year, students choose one of two main directions. The first option features a substantial laboratory-based practical project, focussing on developmental, cells/systems neuroscience or neural disorders. The second option is in neuroscience/neuropsychology option based around a psychology project.
In the fourth year, students undertake an extended project based around laboratory and/or research work. They are able to build on the expertise gained in the third year to gain a thorough understanding of the conception, conduct and analysis of research. The topic for the project can be contrasting or similar to that in year three. 
Alongside the research project students take a course in research methods with emphasis on analytical and numerical skills. The third element of the fourth year is an optional taught module on one of seven topics from developmental neurobiology to neurodegeneration or neuroimaging. Students thus have an opportunity to explore how neuroscience links with clinical issues.
   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  Students take modules in the core biomedical science disciplines common to all BSc programmes in the School of Bioscience Education. The topics include molecular and cell biology, biochemistry, physiology, pharmacology and the practice of biomedical science. One module is dedicated to understanding neuroscience and cell biology. In addition, a series of specialised neuroscience introductory lectures are offered and students also benefit from subject-specific small group tutorials. 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   In common with all of the BSc/MSci programmes in the School of Bioscience Education, students take compulsory modules in the core biomedical science disciplines. These
modules cover neuroscience, biochemistry, genetics, cell biology, physiology, pharmacology, cell and tissue structure and function, statistics and issues related to the practice of science, including ethics and communication.   
    
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   Students take an integrated set of core modules, including a substantial neuroscience course encompassing neuroanatomy and physiology, modules in molecular and developmental biology and pharmacology of the nervous system. Further specialised modules give insights into psychological and philosophical theories of mind. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   Neuroscience
Neuroscience   the Mind
Physiology   Pharmacology of the Central Nervous System
Essentials of Embryology
Psychology
Gene Cloning   Expression A   
      
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   There is a wide range of module choices, and students specialise in one of two options. All students are expected to undertake a research project as part of their third year, in most cases this will be laboratory-based and will give students the opportunity to experience original research first hand. Option one includes a substantial laboratory-based project in developmental, cells and systems neuroscience or neural disorders, whereas option two involves a neuropsychology research project. 
     
      
  YEAR 3 OPTIONS
   Option 1: Neuroscience - Laboratory Research
Features a major neuroscience project within a research laboratory, which can be on a wide range of topics within cells, systems, developmental neuroscience or neurodegeneration. There is an accompanying course on the principles of research and two further courses as follows:
&bull; Laboratory-based Project in Neuroscience
&bull; Principles of Neurobiological Research
Students then take two out of four of the following options:
&bull; Developmental Neurobiology
&bull; Cellular and Systems Neuroscience
&bull; Perspectives on Pain   Nervous System Disorders
&bull; Mechanisms of Development
Option 2: Neuroscience and Neuropsychology
Features a psychology research project and various combinations of taught courses:
&bull; Research Project in Psychology (including a taught course in research methods and statistics)
&bull; Cognitive Neuropsychology
&bull; Cellular and Systems Neuroscience
&bull; Pharmacology of Neurological   Psychiatric Disorders
&bull; Neuroendocrinology
  
  
   
   
     
      YEAR 4
   During year four all students undertake an extended research project and a module on research methods and project design, which gives them insight into the design and conduct of research. Students then take a taught module, chosen as one of seven options.   
      
  YEAR 4 CORE
   Students take the same two modules as follows:
Extended Research Project in Neuroscience
Research Methods and Project Design
   
     
  YEAR 4 OPTIONS
   Students take one chosen from the following seven optional taught modules:
&bull; Psychiatric Genetics Research
&bull; Addiction Biology Research
&bull; Developmental Neurobiology Research
&bull; Neurodegeneration Research
&bull; Neuroimaging Research
&bull; Functional Neuroimaging and Tractography Research
&bull; Cognitive Neuroscience