In the first year of the Neuroscience BSc programme, students take a common set of modules which provide important grounding in many aspects of the biosciences. These modules cover basic principles of cell biology and neuroscience, chemistry and biochemistry, aspects of the form and function of tissues and organs and pharmacology. They therefore encompass the fundamental ideas and principles which will underpin all the neuroscience learning in the second and third year. A skills module covers a range of communication, analytical and numerical aspects of the biosciences, introductory tutorials specific to the Neuroscience students are also provided.
In the second year, all modules are compulsory, including a major neuroscience course, with anatomical and pharmacological aspects, developmental and molecular modules, courses on the fundamentals of psychology and the philosophy underpinning theories of mind.
The modules are integrated to give an overview of neuroscience disciplines and to equip students with the knowledge to progress to the third year and to choose one of three main directions. These include an option with a substantial laboratory-based practical project focussing on developmental, cells/systems neuroscience or neural disorders, and a neuroscience/neuropsychology option based around a psychology project or an option including a library project and neuroscience lab practicals.
   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  Students take modules in the core biomedical science disciplines common to all BSc programmes in the School of Biomedical Sciences. The topics include molecular and cell biology, biochemistry, physiology, pharmacology and the practice of biomedical science. 
One module is dedicated to understanding neuroscience and cell biology. In addition, a series of specialised neuroscience introductory lectures are offered, and students benefit from subject-specific small group tutorials. 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   In common with all of the BSc/MSci programmes in the School of Bioscience Education, students take compulsory modules in the core biomedical science disciplines. These modules cover neuroscience, biochemistry, genetics, cell biology, physiology, pharmacology, cell and tissue structure and function, statistics and issues related to the practice of science, including ethics and communication.   
    
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   Students take an integrated set of core modules, including a substantial neuroscience course encompassing neuroanatomy and physiology, modules in molecular and developmental biology and pharmacology of the nervous system. Further specialised modules give insights into psychological and philosophical theories of mind. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   Neuroscience
Neuroscience   the Mind
Physiology   Pharmacology of the Central Nervous System
Essentials of Embryology
Psychology
Gene Cloning   Expression A
   
      
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   There is a wide range of module choices, and students specialise in one of three options. All students are expected to undertake a research project as part of their final year, in most cases this will be laboratory-based and will give students the opportunity to experience original research first hand. 
Option one includes a substantial laboratory-based project in developmental, cells and systems neuroscience or neural disorders, whereas option two involves a neuropsychology research project, and option three includes a library project with a wide range of taught courses, including neuroscience lab practicals. 
     
   
  YEAR 3 CORE
     
   
      
  YEAR 3 OPTIONS
   Option 1: Neuroscience - Laboratory Research
Features a major neuroscience project within a research laboratory, which can be on a wide range of topics within cells, systems, developmental neuroscience or neurodegeneration. There is an accompanying course on the principles of research and two further courses as follows:
Laboratory-based Project in Neuroscience
Principles of Neurobiological Research
Students then take two out of four of the following options:
Developmental Neurobiology
Cellular and Systems Neuroscience
Perspectives on Pain   Nervous System Disorders
Mechanisms of Development
Option 2: Neuroscience and Neuropsychology
Features a psychology research project and various combinations of taught courses:
&bull; Research Project in Psychology (including a taught course in research methods and statistics)
&bull; Cognitive Neuropsychology
&bull; Cellular and Systems Neuroscience
&bull; Pharmacology of Neurological   Psychiatric Disorders
&bull; Neuroendocrinology
Option 3: Neuroscience - Literature and Practical Topics
Features a literature-based neuroscience project and a wide range of taught modules in addition to a shorter laboratory-based module comprising structured experimental sessions:
Literature-based Neuroscience Project
Experimental Topics in Neuroscience
and a selection from:
Cellular   Systems Neuroscience
Pharmacology of Neurological   Psychiatric Disorders
Neuroendocrinology
Behavioural Science
Developmental Neurobiology
Cellular Basis of Drug Dependence
Perspectives on Pain   Nervous System Disorders
Project Design in Neuroscience