King's reviews its optional modules on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes and this list is therefore subject to change. 
Currently, students study the following core and optional modules.
   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  Six core modules.
 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   Biochemistry  
Introduction to Nutrition
Introduction to Food Science   Technology
Genetics   Molecular Biology
Physiology for Nutrition Students
Social and Psychological Studies
   
    
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   Three core modules plus up to four options, which must include physiology and biochemistry. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   Nutrition   Health
Food Habits
Research Methods for Health Sciences
   
      
  
  
  
 
 
   
  YEAR 2 OPTIONS
   Up to four optional modules to the value of 60 credits, which must include at least 15 credits of Physiology and 15 credits of Biochemistry and may also include Immunology, Microbiology and Genetics. 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   Four core modules plus two options. 
     
   
  YEAR 3 CORE
   Applied Nutrition
Clinical Nutrition
Public Nutrition Research Project
Specialised topics in Nutrition
   
      
  YEAR 3 OPTIONS
   Two optional modules to a total value of 30 credits chosen from final year courses. A modern language may be chosen as one of the options in either year  two or year three.
EXTRAMURAL YEAR IN INDUSTRY OR RESEARCH PLACEMENT
Through a competitive system, students may be offered the chance to take an extramural year between second and final year, taking up paid employment in an industrial or research establishment in the UK or elsewhere in Europe. On returning to the university for the final year, the student&rsquo;s performance during the extramural placement will be assessed through a written dissertation and poster presentation. The extramural year greatly expands your work and research experience and often improves the choice of job opportunities after graduation.