Currently, students study the following core modules. If there are optional modules available the current choices are also shown. King's reviews its optional modules on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes and this list is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates, or contact the School/department for further advice.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  In common with all of the BSc programmes in the School of Bioscience Education, students take compulsory modules in the biomedical science disciplines. 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   Modules cover: Biochemistry; Chemistry for Biosciences; Cell Biology and Neuroscience; Human Form and Function; Fundamentals of Pharmacology; Skills for Biosciences; Genetics and Molecular Biology.   
    
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   Students take four core modules, plus optional modules offered within (below) or outside the School, eg. a modern language. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   Drugs   Disease
Drug Discovery   Development
Physiology   Pharmacology of the Central Nervous System
Research Skills in Pharmacology   
      
  
  
  
 
 
   
  YEAR 2 OPTIONS
   Animal Models of Disease   Injury
Cell   Tissue Pathology
Cell Biology
Entrepreneurship in Biomedicine   Biotechnology
Essentials of Embryology
Gene Cloning   Expression
Human   Molecular Genetics
Medical Microbiology
Modern Languages
Molecular Medicine
Neuroscience
Immune System in Health   Disease
Immunology   Pathology
Psychology
Reproduction   Endocrinology
Report on a Physiological Topic
Social Impact of the Biosciences
Tissue Pathology 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   Students should take the core modules plus optional modules. NB: This year can be used for a full-time extramural year laboratory placement with the fourth year following the structure of year three below and the fifth year following the structure of year four below. 
     
   
  YEAR 3 CORE
   Drug Safety   Toxicology
Pharmacology Library Project
Cell   Molecular Pharmacology
or
Cellular Basis of Drug Dependence
Experimental Pharmacology of Inflammation
or
Experimental Cardiovascular Pharmacology
  
   
      
  YEAR 3 OPTIONS
   ONE, not overlapping with core Experimental modules, to be chosen from:
Cardiovascular Pharmacology
Pharmacology of Inflammation
Pharmacology of Neurological   Psychiatric Disorders
  
  
  
   
   
     
      YEAR 4
   Students should take all of the core modules.   
      
  YEAR 4 CORE
   Advanced Research Skills in Pharmacology
Project Design in Pharmacology
Pharmacology Research Dissertation