Currently, students study the following core modules. If there are optional modules available the current choices are also shown. King's reviews its optional modules on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes and this list is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates, or contact the School/department for further advice.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  In common with all of the BSc programmes in the School of Bioscience Education, students take compulsory modules in the biomedical science disciplines.
 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   Modules cover biochemistry, genetics, cell biology, physiology, pharmacology, cell and tissue structure and function, statistics and issues related to the practice of science, including ethics and communication.
   
    
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   Students take  three core modules, plus  optional modules offered within (below) or outside the School, eg. a  modern language. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   Drugs   Disease
Drug Discovery   Development
Physiology   Pharmacology of the Central Nervous System   
      
  
  
  
 
 
   
  YEAR 2 OPTIONS
   Animal Models of Disease   Injury
Cell   Tissue Pathology
Cell Biology
Entrepreneurship in Biomedicine   Biotechnology
Essentials of Embryology
Gene Cloning   Expression
Human   Molecular Genetics
Medical Microbiology
Modern Languages
Molecular Medicine
Neuroscience
Immune System in Health   Disease
Immunology   Pathology
Psychology
Reproduction   Endocrinology
Report on a Physiological Topic
Social Impact of the Biosciences
Tissue Pathology 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   Students should take the core modules plus optional modules. NB: This year can be used for a full-time extramural year laboratory placement with the final year following the structure of year three. 
     
   
  YEAR 3 CORE
   Cell   Molecular Pharmacology 
or 
Cellular Basis of Drug Dependence   
      
  YEAR 3 OPTIONS
   Pharmacology Research project or Library Project 
Cardiovascular Pharmacology
Experimental Cardiovascular Pharmacology 
Pharmacology of Inflammation 
Experimental Pharmacology of Inflammation
Project Design in Pharmacology
Experimental Pharmacology of Neurological   Psychiatric Disorders
Pharmacology of Neurological   Psychiatric Disorders
Behavioural Science
Biology of Ageing
Biology of Cancer
Cardiovascular   Respiratory Control
Cellular   Systems Neuroscience
Extreme Physiology
Endocrinology of Diabetes
Free Radicals   Human Disease
Mechanisms of Development
Modern Language
Molecular Genetics courses
Neuroendocrinology
Reproductive Physiology 
Safety Pharmacology
Selected Topics in Human Biology
Social impact of the Biosciences  
  
   
   
     
      YEAR 4
   For students taking the optional Year Four MSci in Integrated Pharmacology    Physiology for Research only.
   
      
  YEAR 4 CORE
   Principles of In Vivo Pharmacology
Characterising Novel Pharmacology in Animal Models
Experimental Integrative Pharmacoloyg   Physiology
Home Office Personal Licence Course
Extended Research Project in Integrated Pharmacology   Physiology