Currently, students study this programme structure. King's reviews its programmes on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting learning opportunities and this information is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates, or contact the School/Department for further advice.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  A key module focuses on provision of client-centred, responsive services where client choice is paramount. Communication skills are developed progressively both in physiotherapy and interprofessional learning activities. 
A further two modules introduce concepts of decision making in practice, encourage the development of a variety of professional skills, and emphasise profession-specific knowledge and skill in the science of human movement. 
Three modules introduce client problems of musculo-skeletal, neurological and cardio-respiratory origin and the scientific knowledge needed to understand them. 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   Providing Client-Focussed Care
Preparation for Practice 
Movement   Exercise
Understanding Musculo-skeletal Problems
Understanding Cardio-respiratory Problems
Understanding Neurological Problems   
    
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   Issues of effective and needs-related service are addressed in a module that draws upon knowledge of lifespan development and the full range of methods of investigation. Professional skills are developed further and applied in reflective practice activities. Knowledge and understanding of human movement is developed in a module devoted to neuroscience. 
All these concepts are applied in modules that advance understanding of the rehabilitation needs of clients in various rehabilitation contexts spinal care, cardio-respiratory care and pulmonary rehabilitation, and neuro-rehabilitation. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   Providing Effective   Needs-Related Service
Preparation for Practice 2
Spinal Pain
Cardio-respiratory Care   Pulmonary Rehabilitation
Neuroscience   Rehabilitation   
      
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   A key module considers development of service provision in the NHS of today and the rights and needs of various client groups. Understanding of psychosocial, ethical and legal issues pertaining to practice is extended in student directed activities. 
Development of practical, reflective, evaluative and interpersonal skills at an advanced level is encouraged and the process of integrating theory with practice extended further. 
The challenge of working with clients with complex problems, who are encountered in the full range of acute and community services, is explored in depth. In addition, students evaluate their own performance and the outcome of treatment through an examination of research processes. 
     
   
  YEAR 3 CORE
   Preparation for Practice 3A
Preparation for Practice 3B
Research in Physiotherapy Practice
Working Optimally in the NHS of Today
Research in Practice
Physiotherapy   Integrated Care