Students must choose in each year of study from a selection of compulsory modules. Remaining credits are then taken from the wide selection of opional modules offered by the Department. We review our modules on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes, so this list may change.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  At least four of the following compulsory modules, plus a selection of optional modules.
 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   Elements of Ethics
Introduction to Philosophy of Religion
Philosophical Texts in Historical Contexts
Thinking about Evil
Islam&rsquo;s Beginnings
Introduction to Christianity
Constancy and Creativity: Jewish Interpretations of Tradition
Introduction to Buddhism
   
    
  
    
   
  YEAR 1 OPTIONS
   Up to four further modules chosen from the wide variety of first year / level 4 optional modules offered by the Department.
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   You must take four core modules and choose your remaining modules from a range of options. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   Philosophy   Film
Applied Ethics
Religious Difference: Jewish, Christian   Other Perspectives
Modern Islam I: History   Politics
Buddhist Ethics
   
      
  
  
  
 
 
   
  YEAR 2 OPTIONS
   Up to four further modules chosen from the wide variety of second year / level 5 optional modules offered by the Department
. 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   You must take four core modules and choose your remaining modules from a range of options. You also have the opportunity to write a dissertation, for which you will receive one-to-one supervision with a member of staff. 
     
   
  YEAR 3 CORE
   The Search for Meaning
Special Questions in Social Ethics
Law   Ethics in the Hebrew Bible
Contemporary Thought in the Muslim World
European Jews and the Orient
Contemporary Philosophy and Theology
Philosophy of Religious Life
   
      
  YEAR 3 OPTIONS
   Up to four further modules chosen from the wide variety of third year / level 6 optional modules offered by the Department, including the 30-credit dissertation option
.