Study is made up of compulsory and optional modules every year. Currently, students study the following modules shown below. We review our modules on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes and this list is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates, or contact the Department for further advice.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  RPS students take three compulsory modules plus a choice of options. 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   Introduction to the Sociology of Religion
Introduction to the Anthropology of Religion
Introduction to Religion and Politics
   
    
  
    
   
  YEAR 1 OPTIONS
   At least two modules from: 
Islam&rsquo;s Beginnings
Introduction to Jewish Thought and Practice
Introduction to Christianity
Islam: Later Developments   Modern Practices
Introduction to Buddhism

Remaining credits are taken from the above or any other first year / level 4 modules offered by the Department, including in Christianity, Judaism, Islam, and Buddhism
.   
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   Students take two compulsory modules plus a choice of options. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   Either:
Religion in Different Socio-Cultural Contexts

Or:
Religion: Social and Geo-Political Context

And:
Religion   Politics in International   Transnational Contexts
   
      
  
  
  
 
 
   
  YEAR 2 OPTIONS
   At least one of the following modules:
Modern Islam I: History   Politics
Modern Islam II: Sociological   Intellectual Trends
Religious Differences: Jewish, Christian   other Perspectives
Lived Religion: Making Sense of Religious Practices
Additional credits are taken from the remaining second year / level 5 optional modules offered by the department
.
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   As in previous years, you will take at least two compulsory modules from the below list of four available, along with a range of options. You may also opt to write a dissertation (Independent Study Project), for which you will receive one-to-one supervision from a member of the staff. 
     
   
  YEAR 3 CORE
   Religion, Politics and Global Media
New Religious Movements in Global Perspective
Varieties of Religious Experience
Anthropological Approaches to Religious Innovation and Questions of Being
   
      
  YEAR 3 OPTIONS
   Remaining credits are taken from the above or any other modules offered by the Department, including in Christianity, Judaism, Islam and Buddhism. The optional dissertation/independent study project should be in the study of religion from the perspectives of anthropology, sociology or politics.