We review our modules on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes. Hence, the list of modules presented below is subject to change.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  Eight modules. 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   Term 1
Programming Practice
Computer Systems I
Foundations of Computing I
Elementary Logic with Applications

Term 2
Programming Applications
Introduction to Artificial Intelligence
Data Structures
Practical Experiences of Programming  

First-year students must have gained at least 90 credits, excluding condoned fails, in order to progress to the second year.
   
    
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   Seven Modules. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   Term 1
Robotics Group Project (year-long)
Adaptive and Robotics Systems
Computer Science Logic
Object-Oriented Specification and Design

Term 2
Foundations of Computing 2
Operating Systems and Concurrency
Programming Language Design Paradigms
Robotics Group Project (continued)

Second-year students must have gained at least 210 credits over the first two years, excluding condoned fails, in order to progress to the third year.
Additionally, progression from second to third year requires level-5 module average of >=55%, achieved at the first attempt. Students unable to meet this criterion will transfer to the BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Robotics programme or BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Intelligent Systems programme for the third (and thus final) year of their study.   
      
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   Five core modules plus three optional modules. 
     
   
  YEAR 3 CORE
   Artificial Intelligence
Pattern Recognition
Biologically Inspired Methods
Real Time Systems   Control
Sensors and Actuators
   
      
  YEAR 3 OPTIONS
   Choose three of:
Computer Graphics Systems
Parallel Algorithms
Text Searching and Processing
Automata and Formal Languages
Distributed Systems
Optimisation Methods

Third-year students must have gained at least 330 credits over the first three years, excluding condoned fails, in order to progress to the fourth year.  
  
   
   
     
      YEAR 4
   Four core modules plus three optional modules.   
      
  YEAR 4 CORE
   MSci Individual Project (year-long)
Agents and Multi-Agent Systems
Robotic Systems
Computer Vision
   
     
  YEAR 4 OPTIONS
   Choose three of:
Elements of Statistical Learning
Intelligent Systems for legal and Administrative Applications
Access Control and Privacy Policies
Advanced Research Topics
Optimisation Methods
Computational Models
Multimedia Compression Methods and Systems