You will study the following core and optional modules. We review our modules on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes, so this list may change.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  Students study the modules below. 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   Introduction to Old Testament/Hebrew Bible
New Testament: Gospel   Letters
Systematic Theology: Nature   Method
Turning Points: Christianity in England since 1500
   
    
  
    
   
  YEAR 1 OPTIONS
   Chosen from the Department's year one / level 4 modules
. Students are encouraged to take at least one Biblical language. In Yr 1, this is:
Introductory New Testament Greek with Texts
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   You will take four modules from the selection of required modules, with your remaining choices coming from the wide range of option modules offered by the Department. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   Ritual in the Old Testament OR Theological Themes of the Old Testament.
Paul in Context OR The World of Jesus OR New Testament Greek and Exegesis
An Introduction to the Doctrine of the Person of Christ OR &lsquo;What is Christianity?&rsquo; Patristic Perspectives
Religion, Culture   Society in Reformation Europe OR Between Revolutions: British Christianity 1689-1860.
   
      
  
  
  
 
 
   
  YEAR 2 OPTIONS
   Chosen from the Department's year  two / level 5 modules. 

Students are encouraged to take at least one Biblical language. In Yr 2, these are: 
Introduction to Biblical Hebrew or
Intermediate Greek with Texts.
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   At least four of the following modules: 
     
   
  YEAR 3 CORE
   Varieties of Religious Experience: Christianity in Britain 1850-1970
The English Reformation
Exploring New Testament Theology
Hebrew Texts
Principles of Systematic Theology
Law   Ethics in the Hebrew Bible
Women in the Hebrew Bible
Jesus in Context: The Study of the Historical Jesus
Contemporary Philosophy   Theology.
   
      
  YEAR 3 OPTIONS
   Chosen from the Department's  year three modules.
 You also have the opportunity to write a dissertation on a topic of your choice.