Students study the following core modules shown below. Optional modules are available and the current choices are shown. 
King's reviews its option modules on a regular basis in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes and this list is therefore subject to change. 
Please check here for updates, or contact the School/Department for further advice. 
Students take modules worth 120 credits in each of the four years.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  In common with all of the BSc/MSci programmes in the School of Bioscience Education, students take compulsory modules in the core biomedical science disciplines. 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   Biochemistry, Chemistry for the Biosciences, Genetics and Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Neuroscience, Human Form and Function, Fundamentals of Pharmacology and Skills for the Biosciences.   
    
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   Students are required to take four core modules plus options. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   Gene Cloning   Expression
Metabolism
Protein Structure   Function
Cell Biology   
      
  
  
  
 
 
   
  YEAR 2 OPTIONS
   Further options up to 45 credits. Options include:
Human   Molecular Genetics
Principals of Bioinformatics
Immune System in Health   Disease
Medical Microbiology
Tissue Pathology
Essentials of Embryology
Reproduction   Endocrinology
Psychology
Drug Discovery   Development
Social Impact of the Biosciences
A modern language
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   Students are required to take one core module, a research project, plus options. 
     
   
  YEAR 3 CORE
   Protein Structure   Design
Library or Extended Research Project   
      
  YEAR 3 OPTIONS
   Up to 75 credits from a range of modules.
Advanced Molecular Genetics
Molecular Basis of Human Disease
Molecular Genetics of Model Organisms
Free Radicals and Human Disease
Molecular Immunology
Advanced Biophysical Techniques
Biology of Cancer
Biology of Ageing
Biomedical Diagnostics
Cardiovascular   Respiratory Control
Cellular Basis of Drug Dependence
Cardiovascular Pharmacology
Cell Physiology
Cellular   Systems Neuroscience
Complex Disease Genetics
Endocrinology of Diabetes
Extreme Physiology
Mechanisms of Development
Medical Genetics
Neuroendocrinology
Pharmacology of Neurological   Psychiatric Disorders
Pharmacology of Inflammation
Principles of Neurobiological Research
Reproductive Physiology
Drug Safety   Toxicology
Viruses   Disease
A modern language
  
  
   
   
     
      YEAR 4
   Research Techniques in Biochemistry
Project Design in Biochemistry
Biochemistry Research Skills
Biochemistry Research Dissertation   
      
  YEAR 4 CORE
   None   
     
  YEAR 4 OPTIONS
   None