Currently, students study the following core modules (all are 15 credits unless otherwise indicated). If there are option modules available the current choices are also shown. King's reviews its optional modules on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes and this list is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates, or contact the School/Department for further advice. Students must take and pass 120 credits each year. All compulsory modules and core modules must be taken and passed.
Students on the BA programme may specialise in pathways in Development Geography; Society, Environment and Geography; or Urban   Cultural Geography.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  Students study four core modules, listed below. 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   Geography Tutorials: Critical Thinking and Techniques (30 credits)
Principles of Geographical Inquiry I (30 credits)
Geographical Foundations: The making of the modern World (30 credits)
The Changing Natural Environment (30 credits)   
    
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   Students should take the modules outlined plus three (15 credit) options as listed below. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   Methods in Human Geography (15 credits)
Fieldwork in Human  Geography (15 credits) 
Principles of Geographical Inquiry II (30 credits)
Plus at least one 15 credit thematic module from these streams:
Environmental Geography
Urban   Cultural Geography 
Development Geography   
      
  
  
  
 
 
   
  YEAR 2 OPTIONS
   Please note that not all options run each year.
Development Geographies: Livelihood   Policy Contexts
Environment, Society   Geography: The Nature of Environment
Urban   Cultural Geography: Space, Society   Culture
Economic   Social Change in Post-war Europe
Environmental Remote Sensing
Earth Surface Processes   Landforms
Historical Geographies of Urbanism
Institutions, Governance   Development
Landscape Ecology
Natural Hazards
Territory, State   Nation
Urban Geography: Exploring the City
Water   Development

Up to 30 credits can also be taken from outside the department, subject to approval from the Chair of Teaching. 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   Students should take the  dissertation, one thematic module  and five (15 credit) options as listed below. 
     
   
  YEAR 3 CORE
   Independent Geographical Study (dissertation) (30 credits) 

   
      
  YEAR 3 OPTIONS
   Please note that not all options run each year.
Advanced Issues in Natural   Environmental Hazards
Desert Environments
Directed Readings in Geography
Economic   Social Change in Southern Africa
Economy, Society   Politics in 19th-century London
Environmental Risk, Governance   Society
Environmental Remote Sensing II
Global Cities
Global Environmental Change I
Global Environmental Change II
Health, Lifestyles   Cities
Japanese Environments
Political Economy of Hazardscapes
Global Political Ecology
River Processes   Management
The Right to the City
Tropical Forests in a Changing Environment
Urban Japan
Up to 30 credits can also be taken from outside the department subject to approval from the Chair of Teaching.