Currently, students study the following core modules. If there are options available the current choices are also shown. King's reviews its optional modules on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes and this list is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates, or contact the department(s) for further advice.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  Students should take the core and compulsory modules outlined. Native German speakers also choose one optional German module. (This is because their German language module is worth 15 credits, rather than the 30-credit core language module taken by non-native speakers.) Students should take a total of 60 credits in each department, including the core modules.  Those studying beginners' German (ab initio) take a different, specially-designed core language module.
 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   German
Texts and Contexts: an introduction to German literature and culture
AND
German Language Core Module I (non-native speakers only)
OR
German Language Core Module I (ab initio)
OR
Translation from and into German I (native speakers only)

Spanish
Core Spanish Language I
Global Iberias (compulsory)
   
    
  
    
   
  YEAR 1 OPTIONS
   German (for native German speakers only)
Milestones of German History
One Hundred Years on German Cinema
Medieval Germany: Language, Literature   Society
German Politics and Society

   
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   Students should take the core modules outlined plus two modules in Spanish, and two or three options in German (depending on whether you are a non-native or native German speaker). You will take 60 credits in each department.
 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   German
German Core Language Module II (non-native speakers)
OR
German Language Core Module II (ab initio)
OR
Translation from and into German II (native speakers)

Spanish
Core Spanish Language II
   
      
  
  
  
 
 
   
  YEAR 2 OPTIONS
   GermanGender and Identity in Arthurian Romance
The German Reformation
German Realist Fiction in the Nineteenth Century
History into Literature
A Year in the Life of German-language Film
Politics and Popular Culture in Germany after 1870
Berlin: Past and Present
18th-century German Thought: the education of humanity
  
Spanish
Catalan Language   Culture
The Spanish Civil War
Bodily Desires: Love and Sexuality in the Medieval and Early Modern Iberian Lyric
Fatherlands: Spain and Portugal under the Dictators
Culture   Identity in Spanish America
Cervantes' Don Quijote
After Franco: Films   Texts of the Transition
Goya   the Dream of Reason
Perceptions of Modernity, Spanish America 1800-1920

 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   This is normally spent abroad in Spanish- and German-speaking countries.
Assessment for this year will depend on whether you choose to split the year between two countries, or spend the entire year in one. It will also depend how you choose to spend your year: as an exchange student at a university abroad, as a language assistant teaching English, or on an approved work placement (German only).
 
     
     
   
   
     
      YEAR 4
   Students should take the core modules outlined plus two or three German optional modules and a total of 60 credits in the Department of Spanish, Portuguese      Latin American Studies.
   
      
  YEAR 4 CORE
   German
German Language Core Module III (non-native speakers)
OR
Translation from and into German III (native speakers)
Spanish
Core Spanish Language IV
   
     
  YEAR 4 OPTIONS
   German
Religion, sex and politics: German literature of the sixteenth and
seventeenth centuries
Goethe: from Sturm und Drang to Classicism
Kafka
Aspects of post-1945 German-Language Culture
New German Cinema in East and West
German reunification: culture and politics
Politics and everyday life in twentieth-century Germany
Death and the Afterlife in Medieval and Modern German Literature
Writing in Tongues: Literature   Migration in the Modern German Context
Contemporary German Politics
Dissertation
  
Spanish
Advanced Topics in Applied Linguistics
Advanced Catalan Language
Myth   Archive: 19th   20th Century Rewritings on Colonial Latin America
Stereotypes in Modern Spanish Cinema
Key Terms   Points of View in Latin American Visual Arts
Journey through Spain: Travel Writing in Modern Spain
History   Imagination in 19th-century Spanish Narrative
Writing Women in Pre-Modern Spain
Imperial Visions in Iberian Literature
Research Dissertation option