Currently, students study the following core modules. If there are options available the current choices are also shown. King's reviews its optional modules on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes, and this list is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates, or contact the department for further advice.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  The degree structure in the German Department differs slightly depending on whether
you are a native or non-native German speaker. Each year students take modules totalling 120 credits. Native speakers will take more optional modules because their language modules are worth 15 credits, rather than the 30-credit core language modules for non-native speakers.
 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   Texts and Contexts: an introduction to German literature and culture (compulsory)
AND
German Language Core Module I (non-native speakers only)
OR
Translation from and into German I (native speakers only)
   
    
  
    
   
  YEAR 1 OPTIONS
   In addition, non-native German speakers choose four of the following. Native German speakers also choose an elective outside of the department.
Milestones of German History
One Hundred Years on German Cinema
Medieval Germany: Language, Literature and Society
German Politics and Society
Single Honours students may take an elective module taught outside the Department.
(Many students choose a language module taught in the Modern Language Centre.)
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   Students (except for German native speakers) take the core language module plus seven optional modules from the list below, including up to two further language modules. One module may be taken outside the Department. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   German Language Core Module II (non-native speakers)
OR
Translation from and into German II (native speakers)
   
      
  
  
  
 
 
   
  YEAR 2 OPTIONS
   Students will choose either six or seven optional modules from the following list, depending on whether they are non-native or native German speakers.
Gender and Identity in Arthurian Romance
The German Reformation
German Realist Fiction in the Nineteenth Century
History into Literature
A Year in the Life of German-language Film
Politics and Popular Culture in Germany after 1870
Berlin: Past and Present
18th-century German Thought: the education of humanity

Single Honours students may take an elective module taught outside the Department.
(Many students choose a language module taught in the Modern Language Centre.)
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   This is normally spent in Germany, Austria or German-speaking Switzerland, either as a student at one of our Erasmus partner institutions, as a language teaching assistant, or on an approved work placement. We have links with universities in Munich, Frankfurt (Main), Berlin, Heidelberg and Vienna under the European Erasmus-Socrates scheme.
 
     
     
   
   
     
      YEAR 4
   Students should take the core modules outlined plus up to six or seven options (depending  whether you are a non-native or native speaker).
   
      
  YEAR 4 CORE
   German Language Core Module III (non-native speakers)
OR
Translation from and into German III (native speakers)
   
     
  YEAR 4 OPTIONS
   Religion, sex and politics: German literature of the sixteenth and
seventeenth centuries
Goethe: from Sturm und Drang to Classicism
Kafka
Aspects of post-1945 German-Language Culture
New German Cinema in East and West
German reunification: culture and politics
Politics and everyday life in twentieth-century Germany
Death and the Afterlife in Medieval and Modern German Literature
Writing in Tongues: Literature   Migration in the Modern German Context
Contemporary German Politics
Dissertation