Currently, students study the following core modules. If there are optional modules available the current choices are also shown. King's reviews its optional modules on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes and this list is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates, or contact the School/department for further advice.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  In common with all of the BSc programmes in the School of Bioscience Education, students take compulsory modules in the biomedical science disciplines.
 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   Modules cover biochemistry, genetics, cell biology, physiology, pharmacology, cell and tissue structure and function, statistics and issues related to the practice of science, including ethics and communication.
   
    
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   There are no compulsory modules in these years; all those offered by the School of  Bioscience Education (except Pharmacy modules) are open to you. In addition, courses from other parts of the College, such as modern languages, can be selected. A full laboratory-based experimental project is possible in the final year, which is especially useful for those considering postgraduate research career options. A library-based research project and/or an extended class lab practical, are offered as alternative options.
A minimum of 90 and a maximum of 120 credits should be taken in the second year from Level 5 modules. Up to 30 credits can be made up of modules offered from outside the School.
Students take either a broad-based Biomedical Science degree or specialise eg in neuroscience, developmental science, molecular genetics, immunology.
Some students convert their degree at the end of year one or year two to a BSc degree in Anatomy, Development   Human Biology; Physiology; Biochemistry; Pharmacology or Neuroscience.
 
   
      
  
  
  
 
 
   
  YEAR 2 OPTIONS
   Cell Biology
Drug Discovery   Development
Drugs   Disease A   B
Essentials of Embryology
Gene Cloning   Expression
Human Genetics
Human Nutrition
Immune System in Health    Disease
Medical Microbiology
Metabolism
Molecular Medicine
Neuroscience
Neuroscience   the Mind
Physiological Control; Exercise   Environment
Reproduction   Endocrinology
Physiology   Pharmacology of the Central Nervous System
Protein Structure   Function
Psychology
Report on a Physiological Topic
Structural Basis of Human Function 
Social Impact of the Biosciences
Tissue Pathology
A modern language 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   As in year two, there is a wide range of optional modules to choose from, up to 120 credits in value. At least 90 credits must be taken in Level 6 modules. Some of these modules require Level 5 prerequisites taken in year two. 
Year three can also include up to 30 credits from modules offered outside the School. 
An optional research project module worth a maximum of 45 credits can be taken in the final year in preparation for postgraduate study. 
     
      
  YEAR 3 OPTIONS
   Advanced Molecular Genetics
Behavioural Science
Biology of Ageing
Biology of Cancer
Biochemistry   Genetics of Human Disease
Bioinformatics   Sequence Analysis
Biomedical Diagnostics
Cardiovascular   Respiratory Control
Cellular Basis of Drug Dependence
Cellular Basis of Disease
Cellular   Systems Neuroscience
Cell   Molecular Pharmacology
Cardiovascular Pharmacology
Cell Physiology
Developmental Neurobiology
Endocrinology of Diabetes
Experimental Physiology
Free Radicals   Human Disease
Genes, Development    the Evolution of Vertebrates
Genes, Genetic Disease   Gene Therapy
Infection   Disease in the Modern World
Immunology of Human Disease
Metals in Health and Disease
Mechanisms of Development
Medical   Cancer Genetics
Molecular Immunology
Molecular Genetics of Model Organisms
Muscle
Neurogenetics   Genetics of Complex Disorders
Neuroendocrinology
Neurosciences Laboratory Research Project
Neuroscience Library Project
Nutrition   Genetics
Pharmacology of Neurological   Psychiatric Disorders
Pharmacology of Inflammation 
Pharmacology Research or Library Project
Physiology Research Project 
Physiology Library Project
Principles of Neurobiological Research
Project Design in Physiology/Pharmacology
Protein Structure   Design
Reproductive Physiology
Social Impact of the Biosciences Project
Toxicology
Vascular Physiology
Viruses   Disease
A modern language