The Human Physiology MSci comprises core modules taken by all students and optional modules from a choice of disciplines in years two and three. The current core modules and optional choices are shown below, however, King's reviews its modules on a regular basis, in order to offer innovative and exciting programmes and this list is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates, or contact the School/Department for further advice.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  In common with all of the BSc programmes in the School of Bioscience Education, students take compulsory modules in the biomedical science disciplines. 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   Modules cover biochemistry, genetics, cell biology, physiology, pharmacology, cell and tissue structure and function, statistics, and issues related to the practice of science, including ethics and communication.   
    
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   You are required to take a minimum of 60 credits in specific core physiology modules, plus options. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   &bull; Cell Biology: topics include protein folding, degradation, trafficking, and signalling; cytoskeletal proteins, cell movement, cell death by apoptosis; complex tissue organisation and human disease.
&bull; Endocrinology   Reproduction: topics include control of food intake and energy metabolism (inc practical blood glucose monitoring); reproductive biology, puberty and ageing.
&bull; Exercise   Environment: includes cardiovascular control; temperature regulation; reactions to exercise; high altitude adaptation; gastrointestinal function.
&bull; Report on a Physiological topic: a supervised study in a physiology topic of your choice.   
      
  
  
  
 
 
   
  YEAR 2 OPTIONS
   A wide variety of options is available; examples include:
&bull; Animal Models of Disease   Injury
&bull; Bioinformatics
&bull; Comparative Physiology
&bull; Drug Discovery   Development
&bull; Emergence of Vertebrate Form   Function
&bull; Essentials of Embryology
&bull; Immune System in Medical Microbiology
&bull; Social Impact of the Biosciences
&bull; Tissue Pathology
You may also choose a Modern Language, eg Arabic, French, German, Greek, Hebrew, Hindi, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Mandarin, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Urdu. 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   You are required to take a minimum of 105 core credits in physiology plus a further 15 credits from other biomedical science disciplines. 
     
   
  YEAR 3 CORE
   &bull; Project Design in Physiology: designing a research project, writing a research grant application.
&bull; Experimental Physiology A: five experiments in Physiology (neurophysiology, whole body cardiovascular and respiratory physiology, and in vitro smooth muscle experiment, cell culture and an investigation of the protein composition of muscle and brain samples).
&bull; Experimental Physiology B: group project in whole body physiology (either motor control physiology or the effects of exercise and glycaemic index on respiratory function).
&bull; Extreme Physiology: a theoretical and practical study of the physiological responses of the human body to extreme environments (eg spaceflight, acceleration and G-forces, diving, exposure to high altitude, athletic training, extremes of hot and cold).
&bull; Muscle: topics range from the molecular basis of its operation (eg the mechanism of force generation), development (how muscle is formed) to functional aspects such as muscle fatigue and adaptations in growth and disease.   
      
  YEAR 3 OPTIONS
   One additional 15 credit module in any biomedical science.  
  
   
   
     
      YEAR 4
   This year consists of core modules only, covering research methods for studying applied human physiology and muscle, an in-depth study of cardiovascular and respiratory topics, and a project of your choice carried out over six months in a research laboratory.   
      
  YEAR 4 CORE
   &bull; Cardiovascular   respiratory control: you will study the control of the cardiovascular and respiratory systems in a thoughtful, critical and enquiring way. Although the focus will be on physiological control of respiration, cardiac output and blood pressure we will also discuss broader aspects of control, such as control of cardiac metabolism.
&bull; Skeletal muscle function: this module provides practical experience in experimental investigation of human muscle physiology, ranging from measuring whole muscle isometric and dynamic function to analysis of muscle samples by molecular biology methods.
&bull; Group Project in Human and Applied Physiology: you will work in a group to assess human physiological function and performance under extreme conditions (eg hypoxia, high or low temperatures, micro-gravity, etc). You will measure selected physiological parameters under the test and control conditions, analyse experimental data obtained and evaluate the data with appropriate statistical procedures.
&bull; Laboratory Research Project in Human Physiology: this module provides you with an opportunity to undertake a research project in the field of physiology of your own choice in an active research laboratory. You will have the opportunity to plan and carry out experiments to test a hypothesis that you have generated, and develop laboratory skills appropriate to the project.