Currently, students study the following core modules. If there are optional modules available, a selection of current possibilities are also shown. King's reviews its optional modules on a regular basis in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes, and this list is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates or contact the School/department for further advice. All courses are 15 credits unless indicated otherwise.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  In common with all of the BSc programmes in the School of Bioscience Education, students take compulsory modules in the core biomedical science disciplines.
 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   Modules cover biochemistry, genetics, cell biology, physiology, pharmacology, cell and tissue structure and function, statistics and issues related to the practice of science, including ethics and communication.
   
    
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   Students take the core modules outlined plus options depending on the pathway chosen. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   Structural Basis of Human Function  
Essentials of Embryology

and one of the following:
Human   Molecular Genetics A  
Cell   Tissue Pathology  
Cell Biology A  
   
      
  
  
  
 
 
   
  YEAR 2 OPTIONS
   Options include:
Drug Discovery   Development
Endocrinology   Reproduction
Gene Cloning   Expression
Human Nutrition
Immune System in Health   Disease
Medical Microbiology
Molecular Medicine
Neuroscience  
Neuroscience and the Mind
Physiological Control: Exercise   Environment
Physiology   Pharmacology of the Central Nervous System
Psychology 1
Social Impact of the Biosciences
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   Students are required to take a project, plus optional modules. 
     
   
  YEAR 3 CORE
   Anatomy, Developmental   Human Biology  Project or a Laboratory Project, such as:
Special Study Course in Experimental Anatomy or
Laboratory Research Project in Neurosciences
   
      
  YEAR 3 OPTIONS
   Optional modules include:
Advanced Human Anatomy  
Behavioural Science
Biology of Cancer  
Cellular Basis of Disease
Developmental Neurobiology  
Experimental Developmental Biology
Mechanisms of Development  
Neuroendocrinology
Oral Biology  
Reproductive Physiology
Principles of Neurobiological Research

Other options include:
Biology of Ageing
Cellular Basis of Drug Dependence
Genes, Genetic Disease   Gene Therapy
Immunology of Human Disease
Medical   Cancer Genetics
Pharmacology of Neurological    Psychological Disorders
Cellular   Systems Neuroscience  
Topics in Regenerative Medicine

Anatomy, Developmental   Human Biology  students may also opt for other module packages including Psychology, Maternal    Fetal Health, Human Genetics, and Oral and Craniofacial Biology.