The programme includes a mix of core and optional modules. King's reviews its optional modules on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes that are relevant and this list is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates, or contact us for further advice.   
  
     
    YEAR 1
  Students take the core modules listed below plus a compulsory modern foreign language. Please note that the list of modules is subject to change. 
     
   
  YEAR 1 CORE
   Accounting and Financial Management
Principles of Economics
Work, Organisations and Society
Emerging Markets and Rising Powers in the 21st Century
   
    
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
    
    YEAR 2
   Students should take the compulsory modules outlined plus two modules from the School of Global Affairs and two options from the School of Management   Business. Options may vary from year to year. 
   
   
  YEAR 2 CORE
  
   Organisational Research Methods
Principles of Marketing
International Business
   
      
  
  
  
 
 
   
  YEAR 2 OPTIONS
   30 credits selected from (modules are subject to change):
China and Development
South Asian Political Economy
Diversity and Change in the Political Economy of East Asia
Transition, Emergence and Development in Africa
Governance and Transformation in Russia, Eastern Europe and Eurasia
The Political Economy of the Middle East
30 credits selected from (modules are subject to change):
Consumer Behaviour
Corporate Finance
Human Resource Management
Industrial Organisation
Introduction to Entrepreneurship   Venture Capital
Law and Management
Management Accounting
Managing Diversity   Inclusion
Contemporary Developments in Marketing
Microeconomics
Technology and innovation
Foreign Language
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   YEAR 3
   Year spent abroad. 
     
     
   
   
     
      YEAR 4
   Students select two modules (30 credits) from the School of Global Affairs, and the remaining six modules (90 credits), among them a research project (dissertation) from the School of Management   Business. Options offered may vary from year to year.   
        
  YEAR 4 OPTIONS
   30 credits selected from (modules are subject to change):
Gender and Development
Poverty and Privilege in the Development World: Examining Representations of Race and Class in the U.S. and Brazil
Migration and Development
Federalism, Decentralization and Development
Governing and Managing Energy and Natural Resources
Social Movements and Civil Society in Emerging Markets

90 credits selected from (modules are subject to change):
Applied Economics
Communication in Organisations
Corporate Social Responsibility
Economics of Work and Pay
Employment Law
Financial Statement Analysis and Security Valuation
Global Corporate Governance
Globalisation   Employment
Governance and Accountability
Individual Research Project (double module)
International Financial Systems
International HRM
International Marketing
Investment Management
Leadership: Theory   Practice
Marketing Communications
Organisational Change
Strategic Management
The Social Psychology of Financial Markets
Work, Communication   Technology
Foreign Language